On Restday, Phoenatos 1st at 18:00 Elven Stadard time of the 
year 5101 (Sunday July 1st at 6pm EST 2001) Clan Faleen held 
a story telling contest. This is the log Edited by Lady 
Cerridween of the event. This eventwas part of the Summer Soiree 
where many houses and a few "unofficial" groups got together 
and celebratedthe coming of summer. The Soiree was kicked off 
with a parade then over the weekend events were held.

A note from Cerridween:  The contest was on the roof of the west
 tower and lasted about 2 hours from the time I explained rules 
till I got the stick back. The judges were Lady Talabrie 
(Herald of our clan at the time) Shirv (Finace officer at the time) 
Enkai (Fledgling at the time) and myself, Cerridween (Magistrate 
of the clan) We didn't all say our own stories but rather I started 
the story and each person had 5 minutes to add to it. It was an 
idea that came to me to use in GS3 because at sleepover I attended 
as a child we used to have "pass the stick" scary story nights. 
It was a blast! It worked in GS3 better than I had ever dreamed. 
I'd liked to thank everyone who showed up for the event. Without 
further ado: The Story.

(The top three prizes for winning were 100k, 70k and 40k notes 
in addition to a free altering. At this time the only one of 
those three winners that I've heard back from after his alter 
is Drakkalan. He got "a shimmering sapphire blue greatcloak with 
a waterfall embroidered in subtle shifting colors" which looks 
very lovely if you ask me! The other two winners were Kavyn and 
Proximul.)

(Who was there? I think I have all the name here.. could be 
missing a few. I'm sorry if I am:) Nifebrom who is seated, 
Violila who is seated, Apprentice Glayvin who is seated, 
Mirsen who is seated, Drakkalan who is seated, Gahdy who is 
seated, Tyras who is seated, Lord Enkai who is seated, Myndy
 who is seated, Lord Kavyn who is seated, Perigourd who is
 seated, Nefertiria who is seated, Myndelan who is seated, 
Lord Ghrom who is seated, Proximul who is seated, Lord Klaatu 
who is seated, Shirv who is seated, Lady Creme who is seated, 
Journeyman Dymit who is seated, Darcmoon who is seated, Spaewife 
who is seated, Eledryn who is seated, Lord Archamedies who is 
seated, Lady Cerridween, Lord Knewl who is seated, Lady Talabrie 
who is seated



***************

Cerridween says, "It is the time of summer, winter is gone and 
                  spring has brought beautiful flowers. Traveling 
                  Elanthia is a group of adventurers, each out 
                  in the world for their own prize. A tiny 
                  halfling waggler leads the group follows by 
                  his friends."

Cerridween says, "They decide to rest at the local in, but a 
                  surprise lurks there for them. While they 
                  are ordering their drinks a stranger comes up 
                  to them and offers to buy them a drink. By the 
                  look of it, he is a giantkin. He begins to tell
                  them of the quest he's been on. He says there 
                  are many perils and terrors along the way but 
                  offers much gold and fame."

Ghrom accepts Cerridween's wooden stick.

Ghrom says, "The stranger does not give his name, but does give 
             this clue... "you may wish to seek the gold yerself 
             lads," as he turns to Bess, the group's lone female he 
             adds, "er, and Lass."  Blushing, he continues drinking."

Ghrom says, "Having their fill of the talk of this drunken giant, 
             the group retires for the evening to the inn."

Ghrom says, "on the next day, they muster together to discuss the 
             last night's conversation."

Ghrom says, "The leader, a mage of some renown, casts his vote for
             moving the group to the Illoke Stronghold - having 
             heard there are mystics and shaman there of great power.
             "We can gather our force there and learn the secrets 
             of their magic.. and perhaps then..""

Ghrom says, "Yes, yes', interrupted the group's warrior, "whatever."  
             Let's just move straight to the gold! "Egads, we need 
             new supplies and such, you know that!""

Ghrom says, "Well, interjected Dawnel, the brave band's empath, "we 
             surely could use some supplies but I think he's right, 
             further magical power could serve us well if that giant
             is right about the perils we face..""

Ghrom says, "As the day passed, and they sold their furs and whatnot,
             the group deliberated.  Fiercely they debated the next 
             step, over dinner.  Little did they know, however, what
             awaited them.."

Ghrom says, "for the giantkin, in much haste, arrived back at their 
             table that night.."

Ghrom says, "bleeding profusely, the stranger managed to rasp out 
             these final words, "beware brave folk! I did not know, 
             I did not.. I swear it.." as his final breath escaped 
             him, he fell.. and a scroll rolled loose from his hand."

Ghrom says, "the group sat shocked.. til finally they Bess picked up 
             the scroll and..."

Ghrom offers Eledryn a wooden stick. 

Eledryn says, "Bess, being a sorceress and having knowledge of 
               how to read the arcane, studied the scroll for 
               several moments, apparently indifferent to the 
               giant's death."

Eledryn says, "Despite her knowledge, she was unable to decipher the
               cryptic runes written upon the scroll. Written in a dark
               brown that looked rather familiar."

Eledryn says, "The halfling mage examined the scroll himself, but
               was unable to learn anything useful. Except for a brief, 
               passing mention of the legendary wizard named Melgorehn."

Eledryn says, "'What could it mean?' he wondered. Melgorehn was 
                known for a more than a few things... the creator 
                of the Floating Disk spell, not to mention the 
                mountain with the familiar charging altar. And, 
                as ancient lore has it, at least one artifact was 
                permanently lost in the creation of that mountain."

Eledryn says, "So, left to ponder over this mention of Melgorehn..."

Eledryn offers Proximul a wooden stick

Proximul says, "The group studied the scroll for a few more minutes, 
                pondering over their ale"

Proximul says, "Bess and Tarhel, the mage, discussed quietly over 
                what else they could find on the scroll, when Dav, 
                the groups warrior pounded his fist on the table"

Proximul says, ""Let me shee the shcroll!' he slurred in a drunken 
                 stupor"

Proximul says, "Dav reached for the scroll as Bess and Tarhel 
                instinctively both pulled away, each holding half 
                the scroll"

Proximul says, "::Rrrrip!:: the scroll tore in half"
 
Proximul says, "The inn was suddenly filled with a horrible wailing
                sound, seeming to come from the depths of the 
                underworld"

Proximul says, "Frowning, Tarhel put Dav to sleep and ordered one of
                the barmaids to put him to bed"

Proximul says, "As the warrior slept off his drunkenness, the 
                remaining three discussed what this could mean"

Proximul says, "Finally at the late hours of the night they decided 
                the best way to go was to check out the stronghold, 
                for as Tarhel said before, powerful magicks were at 
                work there and could possibly hold an answer to this
                scroll"

Proximul says, "They slept the rest of the night and woke up early
                the next morning, ready to travel"

Proximul says, "The four set out south to the stronghold, Dav 
                slightly back, holding his head"

Proximul says, "As the group reached the halfway point and set 
                down to rest, they were all suddenly filled with an 
                awful sense of foreboding"

Proximul says, "A black mist filled the area and a dark shape loomed 
                in front of them"

Proximul says, ""Turn back....turn back... before it's too late for 
                 all of you"

Proximul says, "the figure said"

Proximul says, "with a loud thunderclap, the figure was gone"

Proximul says, "they pondered what to do..."

Proximul offers Klaatu a wooden stick.

Klaatu says, "the four of them were each of a different mind. 
              Tarhel seemed obsessed over the magics to the south."

Klaatu says, "Dawnel still felt a lingering guilt for not healing 
              that poor Giantkin that set them on this quest"

Klaatu says, "Dav, furious over the mages working him so merely 
              wanted to kill, anything, soon. While Bess was distracted 
              by the warning, and her odd attraction to the warrior."

Klaatu says, "suddenly they all loooked up and turned their heads 
              southwards as war horns echoed from the forest"

Klaatu says, "and a distant chant could be heard, as of many voices 
              raised in worship. but the words they chanted were not to
              some benevolent god, but to something which should never walk
              this world"

Klaatu offers Creme a wooden stick.

Creme says, "the tiny band turned away from the strange chants and 
             headed in the opposite direction"

Creme says, "the tiny halfling having in mind that he knew of an 
             ancient mage who might be able to decifer the 
             strange writings on the scroll"

Creme says, "but being a halfling and more concerned with tarts than 
             scroll writings he decided to stop at the inn on the way 
             thru and get a snack"

Dymit laughs!
Enkai's face turns slightly pale.
Eledryn chuckles.
Drakkalan snickers.
Mirsen grins.
Proximul grins.
Myndelan rolls his eyes.
Spaewife laughs!
Xeldria chuckles.
Darcmoon smiles.
Shirv laughs!
Cerridween chuckles.
Addondus grins.
Ghrom snickers.
Enkai frowns.
Spaewife mutters typical_mage.
Proximul grunts.  How charming.
Proximul mutters tartmunchers.

Creme says, "as they sat at the table eating their tarts and getting
             more and more sticky finger prints on the scroll they 
             decide they had better leave before it was totally unreadable"

Proximul grins.
Violila grins.
Proximul chuckles.
Eledryn laughs!
Drakkalan chuckles.
Cerridween chuckles.
Addondus chuckles.
Shirv grins.

Creme says, "so they set off thryu the dense forest toward the rocky 
             outcropping where the halfling knew the mage to live"

Creme says, "and the forest got darker and darker"

Creme says, "and suddenly they were acousted by a band of thieving rogues"

Enkai squeaks out an indignant suggestion involving stale tart crumbs.
Violila gasps.
Eledryn gasps.

Creme says, "and as they were being relieved of their silvers the 
             rogues also took the scrolls..."

Creme offers Myndelan a wooden stick.

Myndelan says, "The band of scruffy rogues began to paw their way 
                through the party's items. In the meantime the empath
                Dawnel managed to break herself free of her ropes"

Myndelan says, "As she sat, she slyly began to untie the rest of the
                adventurers"

Myndelan says, "With a moment of preparation Tarhel managed to cast 
                invisibility upon himself"

Myndelan says, "Tarhel crept slowly closer to the band of Rogues who were
                still pawing among items and fighting over ownership"

Myndelan says, "Swiftly upon each of the Rogues he managed a swift webbing"

Myndelan says, "With the rest of the adventurers at his back he managed
                to retrieve both scrolls and their silvers"

Myndelan says, "With the added bonus of all the weapons the Rogues carried
                meager so they were"

Myndelan says, "and so they set off again"

Myndelan offers Nefertiria a wooden stick.

Nefertiria says, "As the party left the thieves den, Dav held back and as 
                  the others walked away, he turned to the bound rogues 
                  with a glint in his eye."

Nefertiria says, "Thievery is not something I tolerate dogs, he said as he 
                  drew his serrated dagger."

Klaatu grins.
Eledryn grins.
Klaatu grins.
Glayvin grins.

Nefertiria says, "As he walked forward the bound rogues struggled against 
                  their bonds, but to no avail, as the grim warrior slit each
                  of their throats in turn."

Shirv gasps.
Perigourd's jaw drops.
Ghrom blinks.
Klaatu beams!
Drakkalan gasps.
Myndelan smirks.
Cerridween gasps.
Violila gasps.
Dymit cackles!
Enkai lets out a cheer!
Violila gulps.
Chatoyant shivers.
Eledryn gasps.
Mirsen shudders.
Perigourd mutters murder.
Myndy mutters cold.
Glayvin throws his head back and howls!
Proximul chuckles.
Spaewife snickers.

Nefertiria says, "Not all of the warrior's companions had left the vicinity 
                  however, and as Dav left the den he encountered the 
                  sorceress, Bess."

Nefertiria says, "She didn't chastise the man however, and instead grinned 
                  slyly and nodded for them to catch up with the others."

Nefertiria says, "The two quickly caught up to the others, and as the group
                  was about to turn the way the wizard wanted, that strange
                  and ominous chanting began again."

Nefertiria says, "The wizard, once again tried to lead the party away, but Dav
                  and Bess would have none of that as they prepared for combat."

Nefertiria says, "With retreat out of the question, even the pastry loving 
                  halfling had to prepare."

Nefertiria offers Spaewife a wooden stick.

Klaatu chuckles.
Creme chuckles.
Enkai grins at Nefertiria.
Glayvin chuckles.
Myndelan applauds.

Spaewife says, "As the other three prepared for battle Dawnel, commented about
                the fact that their original intention was to go to the aged 
                mage and ask him for help in deciphering the scroll they now 
                still had in their possesion"

Spaewife says, "with that logic the group agreed and decided that the best was to 
                proceed with caution on their original plan.  Quietly they 
                traversed the edge of the forest and climbed the rocks to the cave
                of the aged mage... Entering they found the Elder and one other a 
                very elderly but spry..... "

Spaewife offers Dymit a wooden stick.

Dymit says, "an eldery but spry elven woman ran to the group"

Dymit says, "she began summoning powers unkonwn and never seen before"

Dymit says, "a golden aura shown about her"

Dymit says, "as you can see the power pulsating from her"

Dymit says, "the halfing ran hobbled forward as fast as he could"

Dymit says, "Wait! he shouted"

Dymit says, "we have come to see the elderly mage"

Dymit says, "he is a friend of mine from years past and i know him well"

Dymit says, "as the words from halfin echoed through the cave, the elderly mage heard it 
             and silence the elven women which stopped her spell"

Dymit says, "come forth he said, as the elven women looked upon them with disgust"

Dymit says, "quickly the group went to the elderly mage and told him of their situation"

Dymit says, "i will help you, he said"

Dymit says, "but first, there is one among you who will betray you"

Dymit offers Violila a wooden stick.

Creme gasps.
Klaatu gasps.
Cerridween grins.
Drakkalan's jaw drops.
Eledryn blinks.
Klaatu applauds Dymit.
Creme turns to Dymit and cheers!
Eledryn mutters whodunit.
Myndy applauds Dymit.
Cerridween smiles at Dymit.
Glayvin applauds Dymit.

Violila says, "the mage sipped his ale pondering. I don't need to help you, You are the
               ones who need to help yourself. Don't you realise? Helpin each other 
               through it all will make you stronger, until the time comes. Choose 
               then, which path to take"

Violila says, "the mage slowly got up. He left the room, seeming discusted. The Warrior.
               Seemed a little angry. A small vein was throbbing in his neck"

Violila says, "that helped us not one bit'"

Violila says, "I disagree' said the wizard"

Violila says, "trust is everything'"

Violila says, "the warrior just laughed with dissapproval." You no nothing of trust!' 
               everyone in my family died because of trust. They believed trusting each
               other was the best thing to do! I will never trust another. I don't want 
               there fate"

Klaatu sniffs.
(Enkai wipes a tear from his eye)
Talabrie rubs Enkai gently.

Violila says, "Bess calmed them down by reminding them that they could just go to the 
               nearest inn and discuss there situation"

Violila offers Darcmoon a wooden stick.

Darcmoon says, "it was too late for the warrior Dav,such an uncustomary show of emotion 
                left him sick and disgusted as he wandered away into the night""

Darcmoon says, "leaving the rest of the group to ponder over his strange behavior....
                all of them except for bess who rushed blindly out to his side to comfort 
                him""

Darcmoon says, "they caught up with each other in a secluded spot in the woods and small 
                comfort she did provide""

Darcmoon says, "passionate kisses gave way to small nibbles and then bites'"

Proximul chuckles.
Myndelan blushes a nice shade of rosy pink.
Nefertiria says, "oh my"
Glayvin grins.
Perigourd grins.
Cerridween stares off into space.
Eledryn gazes heavenward.
Spaewife coughs.
Drakkalan smacks his lips.
Violila gasps.
Creme covers her ears.
Enkai turns to Darcmoon and cheers!

Darcmoon says, "before bess knew what was happening they were making love under the stars""

Darcmoon ducks his head.
Gahdy's jaw drops.
Mirsen covers her ears.
Gahdy mutters men.
Mirsen blushes a lovely shade of bright pink.
Cerridween mutters something about pg.
Cerridween coughs.
Myndelan mutters women.
Talabrie blinks.

Darcmoon says, "just at the height of their passion she felt a change coming over dav 
                and that was the last thing she ever saw as she felt nails claw at her 
                back and fangs sink into her neck drawing the lifeblood from her body'"

Mirsen gasps.
Drakkalan blinks.
Ghrom blinks.
Myndelan winces.
Cerridween gasps.
Eledryn gasps.
Spaewife coughs.
Violila gasps.
Talabrie blinks.
Klaatu gasps.
Dymit blinks.
Shirv's face turns slightly pale.

Darcmoon offers Drakkalan a wooden stick.

Drakkalan says, "the next morning the group awoke with a strange ominus feeling..."

Drakkalan says, "as Dav joined the adventures for breakfast, they felt a strange tension in 
                 the air, and noticed that they were one member short"

Drakkalan says, "Dav announced that Bess had gone home"

Drakkalan says, "the group stared at him in disbelief, but as one of them went to question
                 the warrior..his glare quickly silenced any doubts"

Drakkalan says, "they decided to trek onward"

Drakkalan says, "Continuing on their journey to find the meaning of the scroll, the group 
                 ventured into the side of a jagged mountain range- into the caverns below. 
                 A series of winding tunnels presented themselves, and left the group to 
                 discuss the best way to take. After some consideration, they chose the 
                 widest of the tunnles which appeared to be the main route."

Drakkalan says, "Lying in ambush, a band of lizard riding dark elves hovered above the 
                 adventures, and followed their progress through the twsiting maze, waiting 
                 for the most oppurtune moment to strike."

Drakkalan says, "And then they did. "

Drakkalan says, "Several dart like projectiles hurled there way into the group, only 1 
                 dart finding it's mark."

Drakkalan says, "Dawnell fell to the ground."

Cerridween gasps in terrified panic, trembling and flailing her arms about!
Enkai gasps.
Gahdy gawks at Drakkalan.
Klaatu snaps his fingers.
A pained expression crosses Mirsen's face.
Spaewife babbles something unintelligible.
Gahdy grunts.  How charming.
Ghrom throws his head back and howls!
Glayvin throws his head back and howls!

Drakkalan says, "Dav had da bloodlust in his eyes by the way"
Drakkalan coughs.

Drakkalan says, "Amidst the fray, the group's cleric, Breunor, dropped to one knee and
                cradled the head of Dawnell in his hands. He checked her pulse, sighing 
                a breath of relief as he realized that her heart still beat. Although he 
                realized that the beats were very slow, and continueing to slow every second."

Drakkalan says, "Quickly the dwarven cleric pulled a flask from his pack, and poured the 
                 health restoring potion into the poisoned empaths mouth. Dawnell's heart 
                 rate once again turned to normal."

Drakkalan says, "Tasting what he thought to be another sweet victory, Dav began to search 
                 for any retreating dark elves. A faint hissing noise came from the nearby 
                 cavern, but Dav's thirst for blood overcame his better judgement, and he ran 
                 on after 2 fleeing dark elves."

**for the sake of cutting stuff short, at this time everyone began to wonder where that 
  clerics came from, heh heh**

Drakkalan says, "'Tarhell who was keenly aware of surroundings, also heard the noise, and 
                  yelled for the stubborn warrior to halt. But, Dav would not be deterred."

Drakkalan says, "and a giant albino spider loomed over Dav...."

Drakkalan offers Gahdy a wooden stick.

Ghrom blinks.
Myndelan gasps.
Nefertiria cringes.
Myndelan applauds Drakkalan.
Glayvin ducks his head.
Cerridween waves an arm about in an attempt to applaud.
Klaatu applauds Drakkalan.
Eledryn shivers.

Gahdy says, "the spider salivated over the giants head"

Gahdy says, "frozen in apparent fear tarhen let loose a lightning bolt to deter the critter"

Gahdy says, "giving the warrior enough time to dodge a strike of fangs"

Gahdy says, "finishing off the attackers one at a time the group retreated to the cliffs to 
             decide where their next means of getting to the shaman was"

Gahdy says, "continuing the climb up the mountain, again the chanting followed them into the 
             cracks and crevices"

Gahdy says, "glancing down they saw something moving below"

Violila giggles.
Enkai shivers.
Violila gulps.

Gahdy says, "upon reaching a crest, they decided to face off whatever was coming"

Gahdy says, "but when the first creature stood"

Gahdy says, "they recognized it as a druid"

Gahdy says, "with reflexes no warrior could match dav was pinned to the ground writhing in pain"

Creme lets out a cheer!
Talabrie grins.
Darcmoon smiles.
Glayvin throws his head back and howls!

Gahdy says, "you have set your own fate demon."

Gahdy says, "glancing over his shoulder Bess climbed the last ridge and barely glanced at Dav 
             before letting loose a fire storm upon his spontaneous corpse"

Gahdy offers Kavyn a wooden stick.

Kavyn cackles!
Proximul blinks.
Cerridween smiles at Gahdy.
Kavyn throws his head back and howls!
Shirv blinks.
Enkai rubs his chin thoughtfully.
Klaatu applauds Gahdy.
Darcmoon applauds.
Gahdy smiles.
Proximul chuckles.

Kavyn says, "the demon rose up and howled, confused by the attack from within the group's
             ranks"

Kavyn says, "as Bess came clambering over the ridge, trailing..  well.. Dav??  she smirked
             at the group"

Kavyn says, "before they advanced further obviously something had to be discussed, so they
             set camp after dispatching the druid"

Kavyn says, "Certainly, they thought, there was a way out of this.  Together again, 
             they rationalized the pros and cons of it all.  "

Kavyn says, "'Obviously some would have to scout ahead.  Tarhel and Dav immediately rose 
              and began making preparations to do just that.  There was little argument
              in fact, and the two set off quickly."

Kavyn says, "Bess and Dawnel chose to pass the time reading passages from the Book of 
             Fauna, a wonderfully delightful tome encompassing the life and times of 
             many animals in the known realm."

Kavyn says, "Chanting broke their reading.  A dark, foreboding.. almost overpowering sense of 
             evil overcame the camp.  Dawnel, obviously not the most accomplished weapon 
             wielder, drew his dagger.  Bess prepped a spell and cast upon Dawnel - what 
             meager protection she might provide could be the difference.  As the chanting 
             became louder and louder, they both knew the time for waiting had ended."

Kavyn says, "Suddenly a pack of hounds were upon them, eyes glowing fire red and sulphur 
             coming from their maws.  Wave upon wave they came.. slashing, biting, clawing.  
             Rending the two for what seemed an eternity.  As first Bess, then Dawnel crumpled 
             to the ground, a maddening cackle arose and the wolves ran back into the darkenss."

Gahdy flails her arms about.
Mirsen gasps.
Cerridween winces.
Glayvin cringes.

Kavyn says, "Dawnel arose, seeing Bess was far beyond hope.  He meditated over Bess' wounds, 
             praying beyond hope that he could save her.  He'd never confessed his love for 
             her and doubted anyone even knew.  Well, of course.. Tarhel knew.  "He knew 
             everything thought Dawnel as he continued to feverishly bandage her wounds."

Kavyn says, "as her bandages loosened and she began bleeding again, Bess leaned toward Dawnel 
             and whispered, "please, my dear friend..."  She coughed up blood and continued, 
            "could you...  tell Dav."  Her voice a mere whisper upon the wind.. "I .. lov..."
             and she fell dead in Dawnel's arms.  "

Kavyn says, "Torn from grief over his lost love and the emotions of jealousy he felt over Dav,
             he lowered her body gently to the ground.  Knowing full well that they'd not had
             time recently to turn to Lorminstra's graces for deeds, he only hoped that the
             Goddess would grant one last favor to his love."

Kavyn says, "Dawnel administered his last drop of life keep to Bess and placed her arms in 
             a comfortable position, of course that only mattered to his own sense of concern.  "

Kavyn says, "As Dawnel knelt to pray, he was overcome with fear.  He rose up and searched the
             edges of his vision for intrusion and found nothing.  "

Cerridween gasps in terrified panic, trembling and flailing her arms about!
Kavyn nods to Cerridween.

Kavyn says, "The rest of the group finally arrived back, shocked to see what had become of 
             their "camp."  "what happen'd 'ere!!?" screeched Dav, who immediately drew his 
             weapon and set his shield.  Prepared for a fight, Dav took up position."

Kavyn says, "Tarhel, ever the level headed one, knelt to see the problem with Bess.  He 
             sighed deeply, casting a glance toward Dawnel.  "I'm sorry, I truly am..""

Kavyn says, "Dawnel waved off the mage's sympathy, as if it would help him forget.  He 
             walked gingerly over to Dav and tearfully, barely able to contain his emotions, 
             he hugged the warrior tightly.  Dav, obviously aghast at being hugged, 
             recoiled from the withered empath, pushing him away."

Kavyn says, "Glaring now, Dawnel pursed his lips and spoke very clearly, "Bess said to 
             tell you she loved you.  It was the last thing from her mouth, although in 
             Koar's name I haven't a clue what she ever saw in you!"  The empath strode.. 
             no, stomped away."

Kavyn says, "Dav blinked.  He'd not realized she was dead.. finally dead at the least.  
             A lack of clerical assistance would surely see to that anyway he now realized. 
             Anger boomed through him like a torrent!  He screamed in rage, howling like a
             snert freshly limbless from Briars' attention!  "

Kavyn says, "'NOOOO!!," he belted out and just as suddenly, he crumpled to the ground, 
              shaking horribly."

Kavyn says, "Tarhel sighed again, loudly.  "We must get her buried and move on if we're 
             to finish our quest," he said as he rose to begin."

Kavyn says, "Dawnel nodded to the mage, moving to begin their morbid task. Dav slumped 
             against a tree, his face pale.  Although his muscles would obviously help in 
             their efforts to prepare the burial, it was clear he'd be of no use."

Kavyn says, "Just then..."

Kavyn offers Nifebrom a wooden stick.

Nifebrom says, "the howling and chanting rose to fever pitches throughout the  evening "

Nifebrom says, "the band rested for the following days traversing "

Nifebrom says, "hastily in the morning they rose and started onto the trail"

Nifebrom says, "by midday they arrived into the town that held the shaman temple"

Nifebrom says, "they were greeted with cheers from the townfolk as the word has been passed 
                somehow of their quest"

Nifebrom says, "they met with the eldest of the shaman mages who in turn decifered the two 
                halves of the scroll"

Nifebrom says, "from what i read here you need not further your travels into the mountains"

Nifebrom says, "but you need to find the seas of sand"

Nifebrom says, "and once there do as the scroll directs "

Nifebrom says, "the adventurers silenced the halflings beggings for a tart refill and 
                thanked the shaman in the traditional way"

Nifebrom says, "fruit baskets"

Drakkalan laughs!
Cerridween chuckles.
Eledryn laughs!
Drakkalan clasps his hand over his mouth.

Nifebrom says, "and continued on their way towards the great desert"

Enkai glares at Nifebrom.
Cerridween grins at Nifebrom.
Cerridween laughs!
Cerridween just tickled Enkai.
sPerigourd grins.
Myndelan smiles.

Nifebrom offers Perigourd a wooden stick.

Perigourd says, "for many weeks they traveled to the sea of sand, as the scroll directed, 
                 most of the time bein' uneventful"

Perigourd says, "they followed the scroll to the exact point where it was marked with 
                 a big x and decided that whatever they were questing for must be 
                 buried in the sand"

Perigourd says, "they dug and dug for many hours when finally they discovered a trunk
                 locked and buried"

Perigourd says, "tarhel figured that since there was no rogue in the group that he'd have 
                 to pop the box open with a spell"

Perigourd says, "he cast a disarm spell on it once before risking to pop it"

Perigourd says, "wonder all the while what might be so important inside the chest"

Perigourd says, "dav and dawner waited in quiet amazement as he cast the spell at 
                 the chest to pop it open"

Perigourd says, "a great boom! issued forth"

s>Perigourd says, "smoke poured from the box"

Talabrie cringes.
Glayvin ducks his head.
Klaatu winces.
Eledryn winces.
Cerridween winces.
Myndelan cowers.

Perigourd says, "it was a few minutes before the smoke cleared"

Proximul says, "*Tarhel just got incinerated"

Proximul chuckles.
Cerridween chuckles.
Myndelan smirks.
Klaatu chuckles.
Ghrom chuckles.
Violila giggles.
Enkai grumbles.
Glayvin lets out a cheer!

Perigourd says, "when it finally did they all saw a giant pulsating tart in the 
                 chest, glowing with magical aura"

Spaewife snickers.
Proximul laughs!
Mirsen chuckles.
Myndelan starts chortling.
Cerridween laughs!
Eledryn rolls around on the ground laughing hysterically!
Spaewife laughs!
Spaewife throws her head back and howls!
Cerridween falls over.
Klaatu laughs!
Talabrie laughs!
Creme chuckles.
Cerridween giggles.
Myndy beams!

Perigourd offers Tyras a wooden stick.

Mirsen chuckles.
Eledryn chuckles.
Enkai drools.

Tyras says, "And that's when he appeared"

Tyras says, "A man wearing simple robes and looking rather average"

Tyras says, "He made a gesture at the dead member, and he awoke instantly"

Tyras says, "He looked at the warrior and glared, then a stream of blue 
             energy started out at him and the other members"

Tyras says, "With that the minds of the group cleared"

Tyras says, "and became receptive"

Tyras says, "and then the warrior understood"

Tyras says, "the quest was not for the scroll"

Tyras says, "it was for them"

Tyras says, "they all had a past to hide"

Tyras says, "some had hidden it others had not"

Tyras says, "Bess looked at the man, and relaized the source of the chanting"

Tyras says, "They all understood now that they had to overcome the past 
             to have a future"

Tyras says, "and the warrior then realized that love and trust were worth anything"

Tyras says, "even forgiveness"

Tyras offers Mirsen a wooden stick.

Mirsen offers Myndy a wooden stick.

Myndy says, "the quiet man looked at the adventurers and said...ye have learned
             alot in yer travels but there is one more thing ye must do before
             you be done"

Myndy exclaims, "Your quest for gold and fame has led ye to me and these items
                 I will grant to you but first ye have one more thing to do!"

Myndy says, "He then drew them each forward and whispered silently into their 
             ears telling them each what they must do to gain their fame and 
             fortune."

Myndy says, "The quiet man then waved his hand and disappeared leaving them 
             there amazeed and somewhat confused."

Myndy says, "As they turned to each other exclaiming loudly what the man had
             said to them each.."

Myndy offers Mirsen a wooden stick.

Mirsen says, "Tarhel realized that the tart was still there, glowing temptingly,
              so he sat down and ate it."

Perigourd grins.
Violila giggles.
Eledryn laughs!
Drakkalan chuckles.
Klaatu chuckles.
Ghrom snickers.
Perigourd lets out a cheer!
Spaewife laughs!
Violila giggles.
Spaewife mutters tart_addiction.

Mirsen says, "Also, the man had told him that that was what he must do to earn
              fame and fortune."

Mirsen says, "While the others had been told to watch what Tarhel did."

Mirsen says, "So they peered anxiously at him as he ate the tart..."

Mirsen says, "And when he had eaten it, he saw that there was writing in
              the bottom of the chest..."

Mirsen says, "Where the tart had been hidden."

Mirsen says, "What can this be? he thought."

Mirsen asks, "Here under a hole in a chest in the desert?"

Mirsen asks, "What mystic words are written there?"

Mirsen says, "And as he glanced at the writing, the magic tart he had eaten 
              gave him the ability to read the strange runes..."

Mirsen says, "There in the chest, under the tart, in a hole in the desert..."

Mirsen says, "For no telling how many thousands of years...."

Mirsen says, "Were the words that would make all of their fortunes."

Mirsen says, "The strange runes read ...."

Mirsen says, "EAT AT HELGA'S."

Eledryn rolls around on the ground laughing hysterically!
Perigourd laughs!
Creme rolls around on the ground laughing hysterically!
Shonison laughs!
Drakkalan rolls around on the ground laughing hysterically!
Klaatu cackles!
Myndy laughs!
Darcmoon chuckles.
Spaewife laughs!
Mirsen grins.
Eledryn laughs!
Perigourd chuckles.
Glayvin throws his head back and howls!