Gilgis's Quick and Dirty Guide to Breakage

This guide is written by the player of Gilgis and Ayzur.
E-Mail: gilgis@play.net
Dated: 11/14/99
This is the first version of this short document.

Feel free to forward this around/post it anywhere (read below for more 
information regarding this). 

THIS DOCUMENT IS WRITTEN DURING THE TESTING PHASE OF BREAKAGE. MANY ASPECTS 
OF BREAKAGE MAY CHANGE BETWEEN THE RELEASE OF THIS GUIDE AND THE FINAL 
VERSION OF BREAKAGE. THIS IS MEANT TO BE A QUICK AND DIRTY GUIDE TO BREAKAGE, 
NOT AN END ALL SOURCE FOR BREAKAGE INFORMATION.

I.   Introduction to this guide and explanation of breakage
II.  What causes a clash?
III. What determines if an item will break outright?
IV.  What determines an item's STR/DU?
V.   A list of tips to avoid breakage

I. Introduction to this guide and explaination of breakage

Breakage is the degrading and outright destruction of weapons while in a 
battle. This occurs by weapons clashing during battle. This guide BRIEFLY 
describes how breakage works and how best to prevent it. The first sections 
of this guide describes the way breakage works. The end of this guide 
describes exactly what you can do to help prevent your items from breaking. 
If you begin to become sleepy reading the explaination of breakage, then I 
suggest you skip right to the last section of the guide as many will find it 
very valuable information.

It is important to note that the version of breakage currently implemented at 
the writing of this guide is an early version. Many aspects will change when 
breakage is completely implemented. I will update this guide when breakage 
becomes final with more information on it.

Questions/Comments can be E-Mailed to gilgis@play.net

I give the right for this guide to be published to any web site, mailing 
list, or player written guide as long as absolutely no text is changed 
(including the beginning which contains credits and information for this 
guide). Questions/Comments on this usage policy can be E-Mailed to 
gilgis@play.net. The most updated version of this guide can be found at 
http://www.videogamesource.com/breakage.txt




II.  What causes a clash?

Clashing is what causes weapons to degrade/break. This section describes the 
two  main types of clashes in the current breakage system.

(In this guide, target refers to what is being swung at [whether a player or 
a creature] and attacker is the one swinging a weapon.)

Clean miss:
For this clash to occur, the attacker must be swinging with a weapon and the 
target must be holding either a weapon or shield. If this is true, then when 
a target is swung at and the attack misses, there is a chance a clash will 
occur ("Not even close" will show up if the attack does not clash). The 
attacker's weapon and either the weapon or shield of the target will be 
involved in the clash if it occurs. How it is determined what will break will 
be explained a bit later.

A hit:
When an attacker actually hits a target, a clash will always occur if the 
target is wearing some form of armor. At the time of this writing, every hit 
will clash provided that the target is wearing some form of armor.

The clashes described above are the same whether a creature is swinging at 
you or you're swinging at a critter.

III. What determines if an item will break outright?

When you receive a clash, it will likely look something like this:

Hilted vultite falchion clashes with reinforced shield!
[STR/DU: 90/200 vs. 45/165, d100(Open) = 34]

In the above, a mithril hilted vultite falchion clashed with a reinforced 
shield. The STR/DU numbers for the falchion is listed first above. The 
shield's STR/DU numbers are listed second. 

The STR number is the number which determines which of the two items can 
break. The item which has the highest STR wins and can break the item with 
the lower STR. If both items have equal STR, then BOTH can break. In the 
example above, the vultite falchion can break the reinforced shield. 

DU is the number which determines what roll is necessary to break the item. 
The roll is an open roll (meaning if a 96-100 is rolled, then there will be 
another roll added again to the first total [this goes on until a 96-100 is 
not rolled]). If this total of rolls is greater than the item's DU, then the 
item will be broken outright, never to be seen again. A lower roll might be 
able to break the item if it has degraded some but we will get to that later. 
In the above example, a reinforced shield would need a 165 to be rolled for 
the shield to break. The shield did not break because only a 34 was rolled.

IV.  Degrading

Each time a clash occurs, an item will degrade. The current quality of a 
weapon can be measured by looking at it (a weapon with no degrading looks 
normal). The quality of an item is measured in percentage. 100% is a perfect 
quality item. Once a clash occurs, this total percentage will go down. Both 
items in a clash will degrade slightly. Usually the weapon that can break 
will degrade the most in a clash. The amount that it can degrade appears to 
be based on the difference in the STRs of the other item in the clash.

The DU of an item will drop as the item degrades. To find the degraded DU of 
the item, use the formula below:

DEGRADED DU = (DEGRADED%/100) * DU

The Degraded DU is not listed in the clash information but any roll above it 
will break the item.

At the time of this writing, an item can be restored to full quality by using 
the command 'fix my <item>'. By the time breakage is fully implemented, it is 
likely that fixing an item will be more complex.

IV.  What determines an item's STR/DU?

STR/DU is determined by three main factors: The base of the item (ie: 
longsword/buckler/Full Leather/etc.), The metal the item is made of, and any 
extra strengthening the item has undergone. For example, a falchion has a 
base STR/DU of 75/160. Vultite has a STR/DU of 15/40. Adding these together, 
we get the STR/DU of 90/200. If any extra strengthening is done to the 
weapon, then it would also be added in.

I have decided against posting charts of current breakage numbers because I 
believe that many will likely change before implementation. I will add these 
when breakage is real.

V.   A list of tips to avoid breakage

In no order whatsoever, here are the best things you can do for breakage. 
This should be the most valuable portion of this guide for most.

- You absolutely must learn the STR/DU of all of your items and the STR/DU of 
the armor, weapon, and shield of the creatures you are fighting. If you need 
to find this information out, then swing a store bought weapon you can afford 
to lose at the creature to find these stats. Remember, you can find the 
STR/DU of a weapon or shield by missing the creature and the STR/DU of armor 
by hitting the creature.

- Very rarely will an open roll of over 500 come up. Generally, items that 
have a 500 or higher DU are safe from breakage as long as their integrity is 
kept up. Do remember that a 500+ roll is possible, just not very likely.

- Never swing a nice weapon that has a low DU (I currently consider anything 
over 500 a decent DU but even that will break over time. Note that there are 
very few weapons with this high of a DU.) at a creature who has a 
weapon/shield/armor that is higher than your weapon's STR! You risk the item 
being destroyed! Remember that full plate, chain hauberk, and brigandine 
armor will be stronger or equal to every weapon in the game (meaning your 
weapon always has a chance of breaking against this armor). Any armor above 
scale will beat out most weapons in the game.

- When defending against attacks, make sure your nice weapon and nice shield 
has a higher STR than the weapon being swung at you. Use an item you can 
afford to lose if there is a chance it can break.

- Wearing armor that can be destroyed by the creature you are hunting is 
iffy. As mentioned earlier, your armor will only clash if you are actually 
hit. If you  are sure there is no chance of you being hit, then go ahead and 
wear your armor. Still remember that there is always the unexpected element 
in GS3 in which almost anything can happen.

- Chain and Plate type armor is generally safe from breakage due to their 
high STRs and DUs. Leather based armors will very easily break apart under 
the current system. Full leather currently has a STR/DU of 20/95. This will 
break about every 20 times you get hit by a weapon with a higher STR than 20 
(just about any weapon in the game). Casters who wish to use armor may 
consider upgrading to leather breastplate (85/170). Note that even Double 
Leather (35/120) does not even seem much of an option anymore.

- An item with a STR at or above 76 is safe from most all weapons creatures 
swing in the game. This number is the "magic number" for breakage at this 
point. Few creatures will swing weapons with a STR higher than 75 (One very 
large exception: Pyrothags). Creatures can still pick up player dropped 
weapons so be wary of this occurrence. Remember that your weapon will not be 
safe if you hit a creature wearing armor of an equal or higher STR though.

- This was stated in an earlier tip but it is important enough to state 
again. Leather breastplate will likely become a very important armor for 
spell casters in breakage. Currently, there are very few weapons which can 
break leather breastplate that creatures will gen with. Leather Breastplate 
has a slightly higher spell failure rate with most spell circles than double 
leather but offers much better protection than leather based armor.

- So far, it appears that DB(DS) items that do not act like armor (no 
greaves/helms/etc.) will not be able to be broken.

- Remember that if a weapon is not swung at you, then there can be no clash. 
You can use your 'paper' items in an area where creatures will only 
claw/pound/bite/use the numerous other attacks some creatures use instead of 
weapons.

- So far, only weapons, armor, and shields can be broken. You are free to 
hold a non weapon or shield in your hand and not risk it being broken.


Above all, remember that you are not powerless against breakage. You will 
need to learn when to use the right equipment for the right situation.

This guide is written by the player of the GemStone 3 characters Gilgis and 
Ayzur (in addition to quite a few other characters).

Thank you for reading Gilgis's Quick and Dirty Guide to Breakage.
This document has been last updated 11/14/99
E-Mail: gilgis@play.net
