Empathic Healing 101 
By Eillie Lindenleaf 
9-26-95
& 
Supplemented by Sylvamir Aspynleaf
2-1-97 
and Thanks to Laranna's Lair for this information


Eillie's guide is still wonderful at it's roots and in many of it's 
strategies, but I have taken the liberty of altering her guide a very 
small amount, to update it. I am sure she, herself, does not mind and 
if anyone has any comments, feel free to email me at Sylvamir. 

Any alterations that I make begin with a '~'. 
Many of us miss her and that well-balanced woodman's hatchet....
In her memory and hopeful return,
Sylvamir Aspenleaf

The first thing I always say when teaching empaths is that they've 
chosen the most difficult profession in GemStone. While changes to our 
spell list in the future may change this, I expect we will always be 
the least effective hunters. 

One reason is that our training costs for physical skills such as 
edged weapons, combat maneuvers, etc. are similar to those for mages 
and sorcerers -- but unlike mages and sorcerers, the sword is really 
the only way we can effectively fight creatures. 

By making informed choices when rolling and training a character, we 
can almost, but not quite, make up for our deficiencies. You'll find 
that at a certain point, group hunting is by far a better choice than 
solo hunting -- and that you can often earn experience faster by 
healing than by hunting. 

It's possible to advance and succeed as an empath. In fact, the 
highest-level character in the game, High Lord Strom, at level 
90-something, is one. 

Just as we depend on others, they depend on us. Herbs and the healer's 
tent are expensive, second-rate substitutes for an Empath. You'll find 
that folks are really glad to have us around. Most enchanters give us 
major discounts for their services. Most people auctioning off extra 
items will give us better prices. People don't like seeing empaths 
die, so when we do they come to our rescue in a big hurry.

My point here is that power-hungry, anti-social, or violent-minded 
people (and I mean this in the nicest possible way <g>) will fail 
utterly as empaths. (They might make great sorcerers though!) Those 
that enjoy living to help others, who think there's no better feeling 
than saving someone's life and getting a hug and the word "Thanks" as 
reward, and who prefer roleplaying to "rollplaying," make fine 
empaths. :)
 

GUILD SPEAK
Type GUILD to speak Guild Speak. Only other Empaths will hear and 
understand you. This way we can talk about stuff that would bore 
everyone else ("Left leg please?" "Arathorn's head." "Do NOT heal that 
guy unless he asks you to, he doesn't like being seen with any 
weakness." "Sheesh, that fiter gave me 20 whole silvers. If I save 
his life only 56 more times I can buy one Sovyn Clove!") Type COMMON 
again to speak normally. :)
 

TRANSFERRING & HEALING
We heal by taking on the injuries of others, then by healing 
ourselves. Healing spells don't work when you cast them at other 
people. :) 

To transfer health point loss to yourself, type TRANSFER <person's 
name>. You transfer 5 health points per level; there is no way to 
transfer less. What this means is that as you advance, you must be 
more careful that you don't transfer too many. If you transfer more 
health point loss than you can take ("overhealing"), you die. Always 
check your own health (with the HEALTH command) before transferring 
other wounds! Practically speaking, your life is more valuable than 
anyone else's -- because while you're alive you can save many other 
lives.

To heal yourself, PREP HEAL1 and then CAST <your name>. This will use 
one mana point. Be sure you check your mana points on occasion -- if
you cast a spell that you don't have the power for, it does damage to 
your nervous system. When you learn HEAL2, you can use it to heal more 
points at a time.

To transfer other types of damage, type TRANSFER <person> <area>. The 
areas are: Left Leg,Right Leg, Left Arm, Right Arm, Chest, Abdomen, 
Back, Neck, Head.

To transfer hand damage, use the arm. If there's both arm and hand 
damage, the first transfer will take the arm damage, second will take 
the hand damage. Eyes are a little weird in that you transfer them 
from the head, but then use Organ Repair to heal them.

You can transfer areas as soon as you learn the spell to heal it. 
Empath Circle spells are, in order: HEAL1, LIMREP1, SYSREP1, HEDREP1, 
ORGREP1, HEAL2, LIMREP2, SYSREP2, HEDREP2, ORGREP2. The "1" spells 
will let you transfer and heal minor damage, while the "2" spells let 
you transfer and heal medium and major damage. 

If you have minor damage on an area and take minor damage there again 
-- either in combat or by transferring another wound -- you suddenly 
have medium damage and begin bleeding. Heal yourself first. 

After that, our spell list has several scar-healing spells. You can't 
transfer scars from other people, normally, even with these spells. 
What these do is allow you to get rid of scars on yourself. LIMREPT1 
through ORGREPT1 heal minor scars, LIMREPT2 through ORGREPT2 heal 
major ones. There are separate spells after that for replacing blinded 
eyes and lost limbs. 

You get a scar when you heal damage. Healing minor cuts and bruises on 
the left leg will result in "old battle scars on the left leg." 
Healing a severed right arm results in a MISSING right arm -- not a 
good situation to be in. However, beyond the scar-healing spells there 
are herbs that can eliminate scars and limb loss -- and a special 
empath trick that leaves some people rather confused. 

Let's say you're at least second level. Oghier hobbles in with a 
severed right leg, which I transfer to myself. Since I'm standing, I 
scream and fall to the ground. I mumble something about always 
forgetting to lie down. Then I cast LIMREP2. I now have "a fractured
and bleeding right leg" and "a missing right leg." I cast LIMREP2 
again, and have "minor bruises and lacerations on the right leg" and 
"a missing right leg." I ask in Guild Speak, "Someone take my right 
leg a minute?" 

You TRANSFER EILLIE RIGHT LEG. Suddenly I have no right leg damage at 
all, and you have only minor bruises and lacerations. The scar's 
gone! I transfer the right leg damage back from you and heal it. You 
have no scar while I just have a tiny one I can live with. In the 
trade, this is usually called "cleanup." In order for it to work, 
you shouldn't heal major wounds down all the way, just down to minor
wounds. The exception is if you're out hunting; those minor wounds 
can leave you vulnerable to worse injuries. 

We get no experience points for transferring wounds from each other 
-- otherwise there'd be nothing to stop us from transferring the same 
wound back and forth and becoming Lords and Ladies in two days. <g>

We DO get experience from transferring from others, but not for the 
actual healing. One trick we sometimes use is to allow lower-level 
characters to take health point damage from the injured, while a 
higher-level empath takes the HP damage from the lower-level empath 
to let him keep taking more. 
 

DIAGNOSING

DIAGNOSE <person> is not particularly useful. It will tell you whether 
or not they're injured, but not what the injuries are. DIAGNOSE 
<person> FULL will tell you how many health points they have, where 
they're injured, how much they're bleeding, and whether they're 
poisoned or diseased. To use DIAG FULL though, you have to have both 
hands free. 

LOOK is the best choice usually -- you can quickly see if they have 
injuries. If they're low on health points too, they'll probably tell 
you -- or else get in the habit of typing TRAN <person> once after you 
heal all their obvious injuries, if you're not low on health yourself.
However, diagnosing is the only way to tell the difference between a 
freshly blinded eye and one blinded by a scar.

~ APPRAising some is now a very useful thing to do as well. It sums up 
those lengthy descriptions into just an individuals injuries. The only 
drawback to this that I've seen, is that it does not give the 
profession of the person. If you use this solely, you will probably 
end up healing a lot of empaths that don't really need it. <g> 


BLEEDING
Bleeding means you're losing health points at a certain rate per round 
(about 7 seconds). TENDing a wound (first aid skill) can stop bleeding 
temporarily. The more training one has in First Aid, the longer the 
bandage will last and the shorter the roundtime will be. Some people 
in a particular secret society have the ability to clot their blood 
magically; this will look a little strange to us.

You don't earn experience from transferring health points from a 
bleeding character, even if they're doing the clotting trick and 
aren't actually losing blood. Get the wounds first if you can. 

Poisons and diseases also remove a number of health points per round, 
though the amount they remove changes from round to round. Mana bread 
that has gone bad can poison you, so ALWAYS sniff it before eating it.
Unless it has a wonderful aroma, don't eat it. Eventually the 
poison/disease wears off, but until then, the victim REALLY needs an 
empath to keep taking the damage. Sometimes a poison can be too much, 
such as one I saw which took 160 health points per round. There's 
nothing to be done about those. Poisons and diseases are not 
contagious, so don't be afraid to heal someone with one -- just watch 
your own health points carefully so you don't overheal. 


HERBS

If you see other herbs around, they might be the old herbs -- type 
SHIFT HERBS in the game for a list. 

~ IceMule Equiv.
Health Points Acantha Leaf Iceberry Tart
Limbs
Minor cuts & bruises Ambrominas Leaf Dabbing's Family Tart.
Fractured & bleeding Ephlox Moss Frog's bone porridge.
Severed Ephlox Moss Frog's bone porridge.
*Old battle scar Cactacae Spine Elk Fat Gel
*Mangled Calamia Fruit Walrus Blubber
*Missing Sovyn Clove Rock Ptarmigan Feathers 
Head/Neck
Minor bruises about the head Rose-Marrow Potion Elk horn potion
Lacerations & mild concussion Aloeas Stem Ram's Bladder
Trauma & bleeding from the ears Aloeas Stem Ram's Bladder
*Scar across the face Haphip Root Sparrowhawk Pie
*Several facial scars Brostheras Potion Polar Bear Soup
*Terrible mutilation wounds Brostheras Potion Polar Bear Soup
Nervous System
Twitching Wolifrew Lichen Leaftoe's Lichen Tart
Sporadic convulsions Bolmara Potion Snowflake Elixir
Uncontrollable convulsions Bolmara Potion Snowflake Elixit
*Slurred speech Torban Leaf Ma Leaftoe's Special Tart
*Constant spasms Woth Flower Flower-shaped Tart
*Difficult time with muscle control Woth Flower Flower-shaped Tart
Chest/Abdomen/Back
Minor bruises and cuts Basal Moss Tundra Grass
Deep lacerations Pothinir Grass Musk Ox Tart
Gashes and serious bleeding Pothinir Grass Musk Ox Tart
*Old battle scar Talneo Potion Rock Lizard Potion
*Painful looking scars Wingstem Potion Earthworm Potion
*Terrible permanent mutilation Wingstem Potion Earthworm Potion
Eyes
Irritated Basal Moss Tundra Grass
Swollen Pothinir Grass Musk Ox Tart
Blinded Pothinir Grass Musk Ox Tart
*Black and blue Talneo Potion Rock Lizard Potion
*Bruises Wingstem Potion Earthworm Potion
*Blinded Bur-Clover Potion Starfish Potion
 

INVASIONS
When creatures enter town and start attacking people, it's a time for 
extra caution. Find a safe place and stay there! Don't try to fight 
the attackers yourself. Again, your life is the most precious, for 
you have to stay alive in order to heal others. If anything comes into 
Town Square, run to the Raging Thrak Inn to the northwest, then go to 
the front desk (don't check in though). There's an earthnode there, 
which will help you absorb mana as fast as you do in TS, but creatures 
can only rarely enter the Inn. Use a crystal amulet to announce your 
location. Empaths and clerics often gather there, or outside the town 
in the Wayside Inn, to heal and rezz during times of danger. 
 

HEALING THE DEAD 

If someone dies with negative health points, they will die again 
immediately if a cleric tries to resurrect them. The same is true of 
bleeding, though they'll have a bit more time.

When someone dies, often they'll need both a cleric AND an empath. 

If the body is an a dangerous place, drag it to safety if you can. Get
your hands free and diagnose full. Be careful not to overheal, 
otherwise there'll be one more person for the clerics to rezz. 

When someone is "vaporized ," it means they're not only dead, they 
have the most serious possible wounds on every location on the body. 
This can happen when someone falls from a great height. There are big
experience points there for us, but don't be overeager -- you could 
quickly find yourself bleeding at 50 points per round, and then be 
limbless when you're done. It's really a job for two or three empaths.
 

TEAMWORK 
The key here is to get people healed quickly, especially those that 
are bleeding badly -- while maximizing everyone's chances at earning 
experience, and minimizing the scars we're stuck with. 

Older empaths should leave wounds and health point damage for younger 
ones, handling what the younger ones cannot. However, some older 
empaths are unable to hunt for experience because they can't kill 
creatures 10 levels below themselves, and can earn experience only
from healing. It's definitely a balancing act.

Watch your experience; when your mind gets numb, bow out for a bit and 
leave it to other empaths. If you're at MUST REST, don't heal anyone
unless nobody else can, because you won't earn any experience from it 
anyway.

If someone asks you to heal them, that patient is yours to deal with 
unless you pass them on. Similarly, is someone asks me to heal them, 
that patient is mine to deal with unless I refer them to someone else. 
However, if I've just eaten a Sovyn Clove and am in a long roundtime, 
and the patient says "Help me Eillie, I'm dying" you can help them... 
or if we've arranged in advance that you get health point damage while 
Merry gets minor stuff and I get bleeders. (In that case, you'd wait 
until I got all the bleeding before transferring HPs, so you can 
learn from it.)

Scar cleanup is another big thing, but it takes lower priority than 
healing. Unless, for example, someone died and Ravenstorm is about to 
go after them with his Transference spell, and he's missing both arms. 

Gladiatorial Games are fondly known as the Healer 500. This is the 
one time when players fight each other for fame and glory. Nobody 
dies in these, but instead fall unconscious and are dragged to the 
infirmary. Six empaths can be constantly in a state of MUST REST from 
this event. :) We just take turns, usually in alphabetical order, 
healing losers as they're dragged in. The key is to get people healed 
fast, so they can move on to the next round. If you overheal during 
one of these, you pass out rather than die -- but it's still going to 
mess you up for a while.
 

QUIRKY PEOPLE 

Some folks don't like being healed in public, because they don't want 
to be seen as weak. Others will make public comments about "blasted 
cocky healers" but are quite nice folks in private. 

Many Lords don't want to have their "fractured & bleeding" hands 
healed, because they hunt creatures that regularly break them again 
anyway -- and they're so well-trained in First Aid that they can slap 
on an incredibly long-lasting bandage in a second or two.

Some will be very demanding and fret over the tiniest scratch, while 
others will either forget they're wounded or be so shy they'd rather 
bleed to death in TS than ask for help. Others roleplay mute 
characters, so they can't ask for help without breaking character.
Whenever someone taps you on the shoulder, hugs you seemingly at 
random, or the like, LOOK at them to see if they're injured because 
they might be trying to tell you something.
 
With the large influx of people, some healers will only work on those 
that specifically ask for healing. Others just heal folk as they see 
them injured. What you choose to do it up to you. I personally like to 
see adventurers "In good shape", so I heal whatever wounds I can, 
when I can. Of course, I get chewed out now and then for healing 
someone's "honor" wound or other such cases. Again, it is up to you. 
 

STATS, TRAINING & EQUIPMENT (this gets complex!)
It's worth rerolling if you have bad stats. Until you get to around 
3rd level, it's hard to tell whether your stats are going to be good 
enough for you. If you do reroll, withdraw all your money, put all 
your stuff in a backpack, and hand it off to someone you trust to 
hold onto until you're done, so that you can have these things when 
you're done rerolling. :) 

If you aren't getting at least 35 physical and 35 mental training 
points per level, you most definitely want to reroll. 

Placement of your stat rolls is very important! As empaths, we get a 
+10 bonus to Wisdom and Logic, so you don't need more than 90 in 
either of those stats. However, you DO want a pretty good number in 
Wisdom, for it determines how many mana points you'll have every year.
85-90 Wisdom is perfect; 91+ is overkill. 

A high number in Aura is good, as it affects both your Physical and 
Mental Training points, and determines your Spirit Points. Empaths 
need all the Strength they can get for hunting purposes -- NEVER put 
anything under 70 in Strength, and you should really try for an 80 
or more. Charisma and Reflex are where you can put your two lowest 
rolls, generally. Your choice of race (and the associated bonuses) 
will affect how you'll want to assign stats. Racial bonuses go into 
stat BONUSES, while profession bonuses go directly into the stat -- 
this means that racial bonuses aren't going to affect your training 
points, but the profession bonuses will. 

Every chance you get, train in Edged Weapons! The skill costs a bit 
more than blunt, but there are more swords and axes out there to 
choose from than clubs, maces, etc. This is just my opinion, but it 
seems to be a commonly held belief. Even if you choose to roleplay an 
empath that doesn't hunt -- which is a viable path -- training in 
weapons will help you defend yourself. 

Wear leather armor, and train in Armor skill until you have +40 -- 
which is eight times, or 7th level. Armor training will reduce your 
roundtimes. Other types of armor require too much training and can 
cause your spells to fail -- and a failed healing spell can be 
dangerous. When you can afford to (this will be a while!), try to get 
the armor enchanted by a high-level mage. It's an expensive process 
but worth it. When an armor merchant comes to town, once your armor's 
enchanted a bit, get it padded against criticals, strengthened, and 
lightened. (If your armor is padded, it can't be enchanted anymore -- 
so balance your decision carefully. Usually money and opportunity are 
the big factors there anyway.) 

Train in Shield skill often if you can. This gives you a nice bonus to 
your defense. 

At level 0, train twice in Minor Spiritual spells. After that try to 
learn two spells every year: one Empath Circle spell, and one Major or 
Minor Spiritual Circle spell. Major Spiritual has some great stuff 
you can use for hunting later on: Bravery (11) and Heroism (15) both 
give you significant bonuses to your AS. The Minor Spiritual Circle 
spells up to 3rd level are useful, but be wary of Spirit Barrier as it 
lowers your AS while raising your DS. (It's good for rescue missions, 
but not for hunting.) Spells such as Unbalance and Call Lightning on 
the Minor Spiritual Circle are quite useful too. 

You can stop training in the Empath Circle when you've learned ten 
spells, or keep going to 20 for all the scar spells. Or plan for the 
future (when the spells will be completely revamped) and keep training 
in it to 30. You'll be giving up useful spells from the Spiritual 
Circles if you do that however. 

Always double-train in Physical Training until you reach your max 
HPs -- and then always single-train in it, to increase your HP 
recovery rate.

Double or triple-train in First Aid until about 10th level at the very 
least. If you keep training in it you'll get better at skinning 
creatures, and since it's such a cheap skill for us there's little 
reason not to keep training in it. 

Double or triple-train in Mana Sharing until you have a +102 in it. At 
about 7th level you'll find you're constantly short of power; if you 
have Mana Sharing others can send you more when you need it. Rumor has 
it some of our upcoming new spells may benefit from further training 
in it, and it's cheap, so you might want to keep singling in it 
thereafter. 

Spell Aiming isn't terribly useful. None of our spells need it, except 
for Fire Spirit, which isn't devastating anyway. :) It also affects 
one's skill with wands, but that's an expensive and difficult way to 
hunt. You can safely skip it unless you've got a few extra training 
points to kill. 

You want to have at least one rank of Swimming by level 10, so you can 
swim to the shrine in the Krolvin area. Train in Climbing maybe once 
every three or four levels. If you have some spare points you can put 
them into Scrolls, Trading, Perception. Hiding can be fun, but 
honestly not very useful without Ambush, which costs so much for us to 
train in. 

Don't worry about Combat Maneuevers or Multiple Opponents until you're 
at about 18 or so and can afford one every other level or so. 

Here's what I have for stats. I'm relatively successful at hunting, -- 
for an empath. Which means I can hunt creatures near my level, with 
characters near my level, IF they hold back a little bit and let me 
get in a blow or two. Or if the hunting party is completely 
outnumbered anyway. I can't hunt solo well however; I usually barely 
survive a long stun, and then run back to town. That's life as an 
empath. :) 


Name: Eillie Lindenleaf
Race: Sylvankind Profession: Empath Expr: 600230
Gender: Female Age: 53 Level: 22
Maximum Mana Points: 66 Health Points:135 
Hair: long, straight, dark brown. Eyes: grey
Complexion: fair
Lindenleaf family fame: 5299679 points.
Statistic Bonus
Constitution (CO) : 61 ... 5
Dexterity (DE) : 50 ... 5
Discipline (DI) : 71 ... 5
Logic (LO) : 69 ... 9
Intelligence (IN) : 58 ... 4
Strength (ST) : 89 ... 19
Reflex (RE) : 85 ... 22
Charisma (CH) : 51 ... 5
Wisdom (WI) : 100 ... 25
Aura (AU) : 98 ... 29




(The stats and bonuses reflect 22 years of stat gain, as well as 
profession and racial bonuses. Don't expect to see a set of raw die 
rolls this nice! 

I should not have put a higher stat in Reflex than Dexterity -- 
Sylvankind Empaths rise quickly in RE and slowly in DE. The low DE 
makes me very vulnerable to spells such as ewave, so I get knocked 
over rather easily. However, few creatures cast ewave, and I'd rather 
have a low DE than a low ST. 

An ST of 89/19 is good for combat, but Sylvankind are small and 
lightweight (we prefer "lithe" and "svelte" ), which puts a damper on 
carrying a lot of weight or dragging bodies. For a great extra 
strength bonus that will help in combat, as well as more HPs than 
I'll ever have, choose the Giantman race instead. But I see it as an
important roleplaying choice, not as a way to optimize your stats, and 
there are tradeoffs. Sylvankind for instance have an incredible 
resistance to disease and poison.)

Bonus Skill Name
-----------------------------
82 Armor Use
99 Shield Use
10 Combat Maneuvers
99 Edged Weapons
20 Climbing
15 Swimming
30 Stalking & Hiding
50 Perception
66 Scroll Reading
5 Magic Item Use
102 Mana Sharing
15 Spell Aiming
134 First Aid
62 Trading
20 Picking Pockets


(The first ten times you train in a skill, it gives you +5. The next 
ten times, +4, the next ten +3, the next ten +2, and after that it's 
always +1. This prevents high-level characters from being utterly 
godlike. 

You may wonder at the Picking Pockets -- no, I don't steal from 
people. Training in this skill (as well as Perception) helps me 
prevent anyone from successfully picking MY pockets. But the best way 
to keep your silver safe is keep in in the bank as much as possible.)


Circle of Magic: Major Spiritual
lv Num Code Name
-- ---- ---------- ----------------------------------
1 0201 calm Calm
2 0202 sshield Spirit Shield
3 0203 manna Manna
4 0204 unpresence Unpresence
5 0205 light Light
6 0206 darkness Darkness
7 0207 purifyair Purify Air
8 0208 liverune Living Rune (*)
9 0209 untrammel Untrammel
10 0210 silence Silence
11 0211 bravery Bravery
12 0212 interfere Interference
13 0213 minrsanct Minor Sanctuary
14 0214 bind Bind
16 0216 frenzy Frenzy
17 0217 hrbmstry Herb Mastery (*)
18 0218 spirserv Spirit Servant (*)
19 0219 spshield Spell Shield
20 0220 mjsanct Major Sanctuary (*)


Circle of Magic: Minor Spiritual
lv Num Code Name
-- ---- ---------- ----------------------------------
1 0101 swarding1 Spirit Warding I
2 0102 sbarrier Spirit Barrier
3 0103 sdefense Spirit Defense
4 0104 disresist Disease Resistance


Circle of Magic: Empath Base
lv Num Code Name
-- ---- ---------- ----------------------------------
1 0801 heal1 Heal I
2 0802 limrep1 Limb Repair I
3 0803 sysrep1 System Repair I
4 0804 hedrep1 Head Repair I
5 0805 orgrep1 Organ Repair I
6 0806 heal2 Heal II
7 0807 limrep2 Limb Repair II
8 0808 sysrep2 System Repair II
9 0809 hedrep2 Head Repair II
10 0810 orgrep2 Organ Repair II
11 0811 limrept1 Limb Repair III
12 0812 sysrept1 System Repair III
13 0813 hedrept1 Head Repair III
14 0814 orgrept1 Organ Repair III
15 0815 limrept2 Limb Repair IV
16 0816 sysrept2 System Repair IV
17 0817 hedrept2 Head Repair IV
18 0818 orgrept2 Organ Repair IV
19 0819 eyeregn Eye Regeneration
20 0820 limregn Limb Regeneration


(*) = not implemented. 


The odd codes for the Repair III and IV spells are because they used 
to be called Repair True I and II. 

I'm now going to be training in Minor Spiritual because I'd really 
like to learn Unbalance. The reason I trained so much in Major is 
because the more spells you know on a list, the better you'll be at
casting certain spells on it -- such as Bind, an extremely useful 
hunting spell when it works. But I've been neglecting the Minor 
Spiritual spells.

The Future 
The Empath Circle list is going to go through massive changes, 
possibly making a good portion of this document obsolete. :) The 
latest word is that we will have 5 or 10 healing spells rather than 
20, and we'll have mental attack spells to enhance our hunting. 
Perhaps even the ability to reverse- transfer damage, though that's 
just a rumor and has some inherent problems. 

There are already slots for spells 825 and 830 -- Major Forget and 
Intensify. Intensify's workings have not been revealed, but Major 
Forget will make the target lose its prepared spell and the mana 
points required to cast it, and take nervous system damage -- while 
the caster will have that spell prepared plus the extra mana required 
to cast it -- essentially, ripping the spell from the target's mind. 
That alone may make it worthwhile to train in Spell Aiming. :) 

These new spells will mean an increase in our ability to hunt, and an 
excellent reason to train in the Empath Circle spell list beyond 
tenth level. :) 

-Eillie Lindenleaf- 

