 In response to the frequent requests I've had for information on
 loresinging, I offer this simple file.  The information contained in
 the file was originally written in reply to questions in the Bard
 folder of the GemStone III Message area so I've arranged this in a
 Question/Answer format.  I hope the information can be of use to
 those who download this file. 

Lady Tanna 

============================== 

Question: How do I sing to an object? 

Answer:  Hold the object in your right hand and use the SING command
in this manner: 

sing Object here that I see,;Tell your purpose now to me. 

Use a semi-colon between each line of your song in order to get a
song that will appear like this: 

Object here that I see, 
Tell your purpose now to me. 

Don't forget that loresinging is magic in nature and therefore uses
up manna. Keep an eye on your manna whenever you are singing so you 
don't hurt your nerves overextending yourself. 

Question: Why do all the objects I sing to tell me they weigh a pound 
and are worth about 1000 coins? 

The <object> weighs about a pound and is worth 1000 coins"  is what 
you get when one of several things is happening: 

1. The item really dislikes you and is lying through it's non-existent 
   teeth. 

2. You aren't incorporating the proper keywords in your song. 

3.  The item really is under a pound and worth 1000 silvers.  (Happens
    sometimes.)  ::chuckle:: 

4.  You are dealing with a magic item, or a complicated custom item
    and you just aren't old enough for your voice to work on that
    item yet. 

If number 1 is your problem, you might have a charisma that is too 
low for you to be an effective lore singer.  I used to get that 
message a lot before I retrained and went from 50 Charisma to over 
90.  Now, I don't see it much anymore.  (Actually, I haven't seen it 
since I passed level 5.) 

If number 2 is your problem,  be specific about what you want to 
know.  Try looking for keywords (and don't ask me for a list - there
really isn't a list and if there ever was, the gods would probably 
change the list.) 

If number 4 is your problem, just be patient.  As you age, your 
singing will get better. 


Question: What are the keywords? 

Answer:    You are going to have to work this out yourself. 
I have a few words that always work, other words that only work 
sometimes, and there have been times I've sung nonsense rhymes and 
gotten fantastic information.  My best hint is to ask what you want 
to know.  If you want to know weight, ask the item what it's weight 
is.  If you want to know value, ask the item what it's value is.  So 
on and so forth. 
  

Question: What's the formula for singing? 

Answer:  I had an older bard teach me a "formula" only to find out 
that doing the exact opposite of what was recommended gets me 
perfectly good information.  Lore singing seems to be an art, not a 
science.   At best I can offer some hints on things that have worked 
for me and you can try them and see if they work for you. 

Minimum "singing" is probably a couplet song.  Some say the lines have 
to rhyme, I haven't found that to be strictly true.   But to sing a 
stone for a quickie value check I'd probably sing something like this: 

Topaz of a bluish hue;Sing your weight and your value! 

The topaz will then "sing" or vibrate back something like "under a 
pound and worth less than 10 silvers." 

It generally works best to start your singing rounds by addressing the 
item by it's functional name. Tap the item using what you think is 
it's functional name before singing - for instance "tap handaxe" and 
see if you manage to tap the item.   Sometimes it's not as obvious as 
you might think.  As an example,  there is a gem called "lapis lazuli" 
which which is identified by the name "lapis" not "lazuli". 

Also, altered items might have the functional name lost somewhere in 
an elaborate description.  For instance, you might be asked to sing 
to a "silvery mithril handaxe destroyer with a hilt made of genuine 
gnoll skin".  On something like this I'd tap first with "Handaxe" and 
if that didn't work try "Destroyer".  Then sing something like this: 

Handaxe with a morbid grip;Hear the song now from my lip;Sing your 
weight now to me;Dispel now all mystery! 

Verses after the initial verse don't seem to be dependant on using 
the functional name as the first word but I usually use it anyway.   
Singing multiple verses is highly recommended for a complicated 
magical item.   Longer, four line verses can be used instead of two 
line couplets, but going over four lines doesn't seem to help as much 
as singing more than one verse per item. 

Question: How accurate is the value you get from items you sing to? 

Answer: If you are talking about whether or not bards can set the 
price for an item the answer is no.  Market, what people will pay, is 
what determines what an object is "worth". 

The value you may get from an object can be one of many things. 
Sometimes, you'll get the value of what you could sell it for at the 
pawnshop.  Gems, you get roughly the value of what the gemshop owner 
will pay you.  Also, keep in mind you will get an average value on 
most gems. The GemShop owner can offer considerably more or less 
depending on his demand that day or the quality of your gem. 

Eventually you'll start dealing with altered items.  If an altered 
item wasn't sold by a merchant, but rather, just had it's appearance 
changed by a player dealing directly with an alterer, it's value might 
actually be very high on the open market - but singing to it will 
give you it's old unaltered value.   ie: "An icy blue imflass 
broadword dripping with blood" might sell on the open market for 
45,000 silvers.

