Pantheon of Lornon


ALDEMUR

(Askylor)


AMASALEN

Servant of Luukos, he oversees ritual sacrifices and craves human 
blood. A striking figure with his white hair, muscular frame, bronzed 
skin and broad, bare chest, Amasalen dresses only in white silk pants. 
He's arrogant and cruel, energized by frenzied religious celebrations. 
Although he's not related to the reptile family, his eyes have slitted 
pupils and his tounge is unnaturally long. Shrine - unknown. (Akalatan)


ANDELAS

Lord of Cats, brillant green eyes with slit pupils, muscular and lithe,
with shoulder length black hair. His attitude can be playfull, 
sadistic, or simply indifferent. He greatly enjoys toying with his 
prey. Upon spotting a huge black panther, eight feet high at the 
shoulder, you will know that you have been blessed with seening 
Andelas in his alternate form. In human form, he's been noted as 
appearing about twenty five, with brilliant green slit pupiled eyes, 
shoulder-length, straight, black hair, and a muscular but lithe build 
covered by a black leather loincloth. Shrine - unknown. (Andaras)


ARACHNE

The Betrayer, about whom you should really ask Lord High Priest 
Bleeds. Goddess of spiders, she is an enemy of the Huntress. 
Shrine located at the Spider Temple. (Hrassk)


CARELIN

(Karamon)


DREVTHEL

(Trandel)


EORGINA

Goddess of darkness, grey flaming steel skin, glowing red eyes, long 
black silky hair, truely a visage. She seems to prefer female 
followers, males tend not to last very long in her service. She is 
unspeakably cruel and delights in the pain of others, males 
especially. She bides her time for the eventual campaign to rule 
Elanthia. Shrine - unknown. (Origiana)


FASH'LO'NAE

He is the master of signs, glyphs, and symbols, of all knowledge 
arcane. The magic of words and symbols is known better by him than 
perhaps any other entity. Ordinarily, he'd be considered the ruler of 
Lornon due to his superious powers, but he is reclusive and has no 
desire to dominate others. His followers are scholarly men and women, 
devoted to learning and copying ancient texts, and to mastering the 
arcane arts. He is much like the Liabo Goddess Lumnis, in his endless 
quest for knowledge, although he does hate the gods of Liabo for their 
attempts at controlling Elanthia. His mortal form has short black hair 
with a steel grey streak, appears about thirty-five, and is cool and 
calculating - in natural form,he is a tentacled massive creature. 
Magic of all things is his realm, many belive he is the true path to 
all arcane power. Shrine - unknown. (Kesh'ta'kai)


FOLTHRE

(Faeldin)


GOSAENA

Perhaps a powerful and evil local goddess, she had quite a following 
in ancient times. You will learn more about her if you read about 
Bandur Etrevion. Shrine - unknown. (Kadaena)


The Huntress

Goddess of Vengeance, about whom you should ask Lord High Priest 
Bleeds. Her symbols are the black widow (and other spiders) and the 
eight-pointed star. Enemy to Arachne. She is sometimes worshipped at 
the Spider Temple as well. 


IVAS

The Dancer, beautiful four-armed woman with fair skin, green eyes, 
blond hair, and is very voluptuous and seductive. Said to be the 
goddess of lust and jealousy. Her cults are quite devoted to carnal 
pleasures including any number of perversions. She has the power to 
enslave mortals utterly, and often creates havoc among them by using 
the violence brought about by lust and jealousy. She generally perfers
those than can not control thier impulses, inline with Mularos. 
Shrine - unknown. (Inis)


LUUKOS

God of Death, "The Soul-taker", enemy of Lorminstra. One gets the 
feeling that the Gates of Oblivion are Lorminstra's way to protect 
the souls of the dead from Luukos, who would otherwise consume and 
destroy them, drinking thier blood and torturing thier souls. Very 
tall, muscular, with almost metallic-bronze hue, he has slitted 
pupiled, large almond shaped eyes. His tounge is forked, has concealed 
fangs and speaks with a hissing lisp. He wears a long, white pleated 
tunic in mortal form - his alternate form is a huge winged snake with 
a frilled collar. His shrine is located in the underground ruins in 
the Coastal Cliffs. (Klysus)


MARLU

A hideous demonlike creature, he is the master of the vruul. He has 
black skin, leatherywings, large luminous green eyes and large, red 
claws. He is not someone whose attention you want to have - he's 
wantonly cruel and favors none. Shrine - unknown. (Morgu)


MULAROS

God of Love and Pain, masochistic, a very twisted sort. Like many of 
the gods of Liabo, he will assume male or female form to seduce 
mortals. He appears normally as a very handsome blonde haired, blue 
eyed young man - and when assuming the female form, is equally as 
beautiful. He seduces mortals for enslavement and abuses them in a
perversion of love, leaving them bloody and battered. His followers and
slaves do not last long, for they'll kill each other for the 
opportunity to bewith him. Shrine - unknown. (Molaris)


ONAR

The Assassin of Lornon, patron of assasins. He is not malevolent nor 
does he seekpower, but he is a professional killer who eliminates 
those the gods of Lornon findespecially troublesome. Cool and 
calculating, he rarely kills without reason, and is generally found to 
be relaxed and friendly in his confidence. He appears thirty-something,
with grey eyes, black hair and slight build. Shrine - unknown. (Omir)


SHERU

He is the bringer of night, and nightmares. With luminous yellow eyes, 
a black furred hyena head, and a cruel attitude, his visage matches 
his duties. Merely glancing at him in true form has left many mortals
babbling for the rest of their short lives. He is frequently at odds 
with Ronan, who also considers night his realm. 
Shrine - unknown. (Scalu)


VOLNAR

(Valtar)


V'TULL

God of warfare and domination. His weapon is simply named the Slayer. 
His eyes are either black and impassive, or glowing red when he is in 
battle, his skin marble white, rippling with muscles, his hair silver. 
He is the champion of Lornon, the moon where the true ones dwell. His 
demeanor is determined, attitude righteous, obsessive and vengeful. If
you are marked by V'tull, youcan count your existence in only the time 
until he turns his attention to you. Shrine - unknown. (Z'Tarr)


ZELIA

Called "Keeper of the Moon," she is a lunatic. Stark raving bonkers, 
and her followers all wind up that way too (talk to Lord Sylvine 
about this). Wearing a silver breastplate and grey tunic over her 
statuesque form, her silver hair and grey eyesare wild with insanity. 
She haunts Elanthia in a misty chariot pulled by spectral grey 
stallions. Shrine - unknown. (Zania)

