Pantheon of Liabo 


CHARL

God of the sea, father to Niima, he is sometimes called "The Destroyer"
because his anger is like the worst sea storms. He doesn't care much 
for creatures on land, and is rarely seen in his human form - 
preferring to take the form of a Merman, whale or great dolphin. In 
human form, he's a burly man with blue-white hair and beard, pale skin 
and blue eyes which refelect his moody demeanor. He weilds a great 
trident of greenish alloy set with emerald points. His shrine is 
located along the Coastal Cliffs. (Shaal)
 

CHOLEN

God of festivals, and performing arts, "The Bard". He has a beautiful 
singing voice and is said to play various musical instruments. He's 
the opposite of his twin, Jastev, God of visual arts and magic. 
Cheerful and mischevious, he's called upon to bless wine and aid with 
recovery from hangovers. He's been known to seduce mortals, sometimes 
in the form of a woman just for fun. He appears in mortal form as a 
tall, slight young man with blue eyes and flowing dark brown hair 
pulled back into a ponytail. Shrine - unknown. (Keiron)
 

EONAK

Smith of the gods, husband to Imaera. While strong, he is no match 
for Kai. He is extremely skilled in his craft however, and has made 
all the weapons used by the gods of Liabo. Being a master of his work, 
ever intent on producing the best quality possible, this has made 
him somewhat of a recluse, keeping to his smithy and avoiding social 
settings. Appearing thirty-something, burly, with black hair and deep 
brown eyes, he is an imposing sight which offsets his gentle nature. 
Shrine - unknown. (Iorak)


IMAERA

Gentle goddess of plants, animals and the earth. She wears robes of 
green and brown, and adorns her auburn hair with flowers and leaves - 
when she isn't in deer form. Her eyes are wide and hazel colored, 
framed by soft features. She is honored at harvest festivals for her 
bountiful contributions of our land. Her husband is Eonak the Smith. 
Her shrine is located on an island in Silver Lake. (Iloura)
 

JASTEV

God of visual arts and magic, twin to Cholen, God of festivals and 
performing. He rivals Kai's good looks with his own sensual hazel 
eyes, dark brown hair, fair skin and lean, handsome frame. He is very 
serious, sometimes sullen and morbid and wears black or dark grey 
garments. He is said to have originated many of Elanthia's alphabets 
and runes. Shrine - unknown. (Jaysek)


JASTON

Follower of the Four winds, patron of the birds. In mortal form he 
dons green breeches and many colored feathered bands about his head,
arms and wrists. He is lighthearted and playful, appearing about to 
be in his late teens. With long brown hair, hazel eyes and slendor 
build, Jaston is handsome in a boyish way. Shrine - unknown. (Jaynor)
 

KAI

Lord of strength and athletics, none can defeat him in unarmed combat. 
Considered by many to be the most handsome of the gods, he's a known 
seducer and has fathered many mortal children. He appears to be a 
lean muscular young man with azure eyes and brown curly hair. He 
wears only a short blue tunic off one shoulder, his favorite weapon, 
a spear. His shrine is found outside of Wehnimer, near the velnalins. 
(Cay)

 
KOAR

King of the Gods, Ruler of Liabo, husband to Lumnis, Goddess of wisdom 
and learning. Almost never intervenes in the affairs of mortals but 
keeps the other gods, of Liabo at least, more or less in line. He 
never interferes with Lorminstra, however. He appears as a muscular 
man of middle years, and has a thick mane of flowing snow-white hair. 
His eyes are greyish, skin ruddy, and is usually seen in a flowing 
toga-like garment. (Kuor)
 

KUON

Patron of herbs and flowers. He has hazel eyes, light brown hair and 
appears to be twenty-something, a large hulking presence - his 
shimmering green, amber and brown robes unable to hide his massive 
shoulders. Flowers grow spontaneously in his wake and go uncrushed 
beneath his steps. He is gentle and kind, but has a bad temper once 
pushed far enough. Shrine - unknown. (Quen)


LEYA

Daughter of Kai, master of martial arts, patron of Amazons. She is a 
superior warrior who appears to be twenty-something with azure eyes 
and wavy mahogony hair. She wears a belted tunic over her slender but
athletic form and laced up sandals upon her feet. She has a cool, 
confident demeanor and is skilled in many weapons. 
Shrine - uknown. (Laia)


LORMISTRA

Goddess of Death and Rebirth, sister to Ronan, holds the crystal keys 
to the Gates of Oblivion. She is the one who determines whether a 
soul should be restored to its mortal body or dwell in the afterlife - 
unless the soul has been claimed by others and is out of her reach. 
She wears a flowing black hooded robes over a white gown and carries 
a staff of crystal. She's blonde, with grey-blue eyes and of slight 
build. Herpale skin reflect her somber, pensive demeanor. Her shrine 
is located in the town Temple, where one can donate gems or silver 
in an attempt to win her favor. (Eissa)


LUMNIS

Goddess of learning and wisdom, patron to scholars and masters of 
thought, "The Wise." Tall and slender, Lumnis's ivory skin compliment 
her black hair. pale grey eyes, and full red lips. She is serene, 
scholarly, seemingly aloof in her quiet ways. She wears flowing 
garments of white or light grey and is the beautiful wife of Koar. 
Shrine - unknown. (Valris)


NIIMA

Mistress of the water, patroness of sailors, daughter of Charl. She 
acts as Charl's conscience and moderates his temper. She rescues 
shipwrecked sailors, but tends to save the young and handsome ones 
first. She looks somewhat spritely, with very pale skin, blue eyes, 
and pale blonde hair. A blue-green gown clings to her slender form 
though she appears to nomore than a young girl. 
Shrine - unknown. (Neela)


OLEANI

Goddess of love and fertility, and things feminine. Wife of Phoen, 
and the most beautiful of all the goddesses with violet, gold-flecked 
eyes and long golden blonde hair. She is very feminine and voluptious 
with lightly tanned skin. She wears a tunic or gown of shimmering 
white trimmed with gold. Sometimes her tunic is a sheer, revealing 
garment, showing her playful, lusty side. Often called upon to aid 
in wedding ceremonies, she grants small blessings of fertility and 
undying love upon the newly-wedded couple. Shrine - unknown. (Oriana)


PHOEN

God of the sun and fatherhood, and things masculine. Husband of 
Oleani, though their marriage is a bit - looser than traditional. 
His eyes are a deep amber, hair flowing golden blonde. He wears only 
a short tunic of white cloth trimmed with gold over his tall muscular 
frame. Well-meaninged, Phoen tends to be often over-confident and 
egotistical. Representing the masculine side of fertility, he sires 
numberless children of Elanthia. Shrine - unknown. (Phaon)


RONAN

God of the night, master of dreams and visions, brother of 
Lorminstra, "Dream-master". He is always fighting against Lornon, 
especially the god Sheru, his counterpart. Though he cannot be 
corrupted, he is weary. He is tall and slender with fair skin, black 
hair, and dark, hypnotic eyes. He favors only sable-hued cloth 
garments often trimmed in black leathers and his symbol seems to be 
a white horse or unicorn. Though weary, he's alert and has a sardonic, 
wry sense of humor, and can sometimes be seen with Jastev. 
Shrine - unknown. (Reann)


TILAMAIRE

Patron of music and dance. Servant of Cholen, he frequently travels 
in the guise of a wandering minstrel to seek out new musical talents. 
Upon finding one worthy of his time, he offers to stay and tutor them,
greatly increasing their skill and often bestowing magicalabilities. 
Though he's generally light-hearted, he's a deadly foe when confronted 
with his enemy Ivas. (Talaraine)


TONIS

Messanger of the gods, he appears as a beautiful androgynous youth in 
his middle teens. Clad in a short diaphanous tunic and always 
bare-footed, Tonis can run faster than any living creature. He carries 
a short staff which records the messages to be delivered and 
occasionally rides upon his magical shield (like a skateboard). With 
curly blonde hair, light brown eyes and slender build, his lightly 
tanned skin flushes with his childlike hyperactivity. He's rarely been 
encountered by mortals. Shrine - unknown. (Teris)


VOLN

"The Liberator", wanders Elanthia slaying undead creatures and 
breaking the curse that keeps them from Lorminstra. He appears about 
25, has flowing sable hair striking blue eyes, and is usually found 
wearing black chain armor with a white surcoat.He's handsome but 
unapproachable with his grim, sometimes snide demeanor. The shrine, 
the "Voln Monestary," is found just outside the Graveyard. (Vult)

