A Street Bard's Guide
(by Jaslin Machea) 
  
I. Introduction: 

 Being a bard is perhaps the most fun and challenging of the 
 professions.  Some tend to fit the role like a glove,  weaving their
 songs through the ether with the skill of a master craftsman.  While
 others, such as myself, must constantly work to uphold the bardic
 image.  In other words, don't feel intimidated by the "mystique" of
 being a bard.  No one expects a young bard to start singing songs and
 telling stories right from the beginning.  If you feel interested in
 becoming a bard, simply start playing one. 

 There are as many types of bards as there are stars in the sky.  Some
 prefer the swashbuckling adventurer, quick of wit and tongue.  Others
 choose to role-play a loremaster type, interested in the lore of the
 lands and the stories that make up our history.  Still others value
 the performance above all things.  They are often found singing and
 storytelling all over the lands at our finest taverns and
 establishments.  These are but a few broad characterizations of
 bardic types.  Many bards themselves often disagree on "what makes a
 bard", so feel free to role-play your bard in any fashion you want. 

 This is not to say that the bardic profession doesn't have its fair
 share of power hunters who never role-play or perform.  But, rather,
 a bard is so much more than a hunter consisting of just an AS and a
 DS.  Anyone who creates a bard simply as a hunter, is denying him or
 herself the best part of being a bard.  Even if all you do is create
 a few simple loresinging verses of your own, you will be taking your
 place among a society whose membership contains many of the finest
 role-players in the lands. 

 (A brief note on the writing of your own performance material.
  Some bards go through their entire lives without producing a single
 original piece of work.  I still have a healthy volume of work
 outside my own that I perform for the enjoyment of others.  I think
 you will find, though, that once you've become acquainted with the
 art of performing, your own style and artistry will naturally come
 forth.) 

 Well, now that I have thoroughly demolished my soap box, we can get
 onto the meat and bones of bard creation. 
  
II. The Name Giving: 

 The first thing I always suggest is to decide on a race and name.
 These two will often give you ideas for the type of character you
 want to create and how you want to role-play them.  In order to get
 your name, though, you have to go through a rather intensive amount
 of trial and error testing.  No name can be duplicated and with tens
 of thousands of characters created through the years, chances are
 that your first choices will be gone. 

 Since this can be a very time consuming process, I recommend taking
 care of it before you start rolling for stats.  There is nothing
 worse than losing that "perfect roll" because you got disconnected
 while searching for an adequate name.  In order to do this, take the
 first roll the character manager gives and go through toward the name
 selection screen(you won't be keeping these rolls, so don't worry
 about placement).  Find a name that you like and continue on into
 Elanthia.  This will save your name so that, when you go back to roll
 your stats, you can just fly right through the name selection 
 process. 

 Make an effort to create an original name.  It can be a hard thing,
 but your name is something you can never change.  For good or bad, it
 is how you will be perceived throughout the life of your character. 

 Guidelines for name choosing: 

1) Don't use main characters from a well known set of books.  Believe
   me, there are more than enough out there.  You will not be setting
   yourself apart. 

2) If a name you want is already taken, don't add several t's or l's
   onto the end of it.  You can try to subtly change the name but
   don't butcher it.  Silvan, for instance, might be changed to
   Sylvan, Sylven, Sylvin, Silven, or several variations, but don't
   make it into Sillvvan or some such.  At that point, the name is no
   longer beautiful but looks like the scrawl of a child. 

3) Although names from well known books are usually taken already,
   I've found that lesser known books can yield a good supply of
   names.  In fact, my very first character was named using this
   method. 

4) Perhaps the most important thing is to create a name that is
   suitable for the lands of Elanthia.  Please don't call yourself
   Roboman or any other nonsense.  Your character will never be
   respected and you will most likely be made to change it by the GMs. 

5) Try not to create a name similar to a creature in the lands.
   Names like Trollkiller will be very dangerous in a troll area.
   Other characters will be swinging at you instead of the trolls. 

6) Try to create a name that fits with the character.  If you want to
   create a dark, brooding giantman, then you would want a name that
   somehow reflects that.  Names like Fluffy or Tiny probably wouldn't
   be on the list. 

7) Above all, just try to be sensible.  We don't want to see
   Bigbaddude or Prettygirl running through town.  Consider whether
   the name you chose would ever be used in a fantasy setting, either
   as a given name or as a nickname. 
  

III. Roll of the Dice: 

 Once you have decided on your name, go to the nearest inn and
 recreate the character (you will have to choose delete character
 to do this).  Don't worry, the name is still there.  Just write it
 down and re-enter it when the time comes. 

 Now you are ready to roll the dice and give your character his
 stats.  First, a little about how the dice are rolled.   The first
 three numbers are between 50 and 90.  The fourth through sixth are
 between 40 and 60.  The seventh, eighth, and ninth range between 20
 and 50, and the last number can go between 20 and 100.  Of these ten
 rolls, you want a total of AT LEAST 620.  I would strongly suggest a
 total of 630 or greater.  The time spent getting a good roll is but
 a pittance in relation to the time you will probably spend playing
 this character. 

There are a few loose guidelines that I use for rolls: 

1) Absolutely no numbers below 30. 
2) Four numbers above 70 (this means the first three and the last
   number) 
3) Of those four over 70, at least 3 above 80. 
  

IV. Placing the Numbers: 

 There are many different ways to place these rolls.  If you are
 familiar with all the stats and what they do, by all means, feel
 free to place them any way you like.  The following is merely a
 suggestion based on a bard's needs and individual stat growth
 rates.  It is meant to be manipulated based on race or on personal
 preference. 

1) Discipline 
2) Aura (never above 90) 
3) Strength 
4) Reflexes 
5) Wisdom 
6) Logic 
7) Dexterity 
8) Intelligence 
9) Charisma 
10) Constitution 

 Here is my reasoning for the above placement: 

1) Discipline is a slow grower for bards.  This growth combined with
   its importance in regard to training points, places it high on the
   list. 

2) Aura is our most important stat (mana & training points).
   Remember, we get +10 to this number too, so a roll between 80 and
   90 is fine to start with. 

3) Whether we like it or not, bards must survive by swinging our
   weapons.  Although Strength rises at a decent rate for bards, it
   is necessary in order to hunt well. If you are willing to sacrifice
   hunting ability now for a better character after legend level,
   you might consider putting Strength a little lower.  Be warned
   that this is a tougher road to walk down. 

4) Like Strength above, Reflexes are necessary to hunt effectively.
   We have a decent amount of defensive spells which help us, but the
   bonus from Reflexes is always welcome. As with Strength, Reflexes
   grow fairly fast, so if you are looking real long-term, you might
   consider moving this down a few spots.  It will make things harder
   at the beginning though. 

5) Contrary to popular belief, Wisdom is an important stat.  It's
   greatest ability is to increase your TD, which is sorely needed in
   later years.  Also, if you want your bard to be able to open boxes
   effectively, you will need a decent Wisdom. 

6) Logic really should be placed higher due to its extremely slow
   growth and importance in experience absorbtion.  However, unless
   you are willing to drop Strength or Reflexes, there is really no
   place else to put it..  Like Aura, we also get +10 to our Logic
   stat, so don't place a roll higher than 90 here. 

7) Dexterity is a good all around stat.  It helps your ambush RT,
   skills like climbing and swimming, and dodging manuever attacks.
   Again, though, it is hard to place this higher without dropping
   another needed stat. 

8) Intelligence also helps with experience absorbtion.  I am
   sacrificing a little learning ability here for better hunting
   abilities. 

9) Charisma is a bard's fastest growing stat.  Currently, the only
   thing I think this affects is your loresinging ability.   In other
   words, it has time to grow and grow it will. 

10) Constitution rises at a decent clip and doesn't really affect too
    much during your life.  It too has plenty of time to grow. 
  

V. The Training Path: 

 The most important thing I can think of here is for you to decide
 what skills you want for your bard and train him or her accordingly
 from the very beginning.  Since we can only train most skills once,
 missing a few trainings in a particular skill makes it much harder
 for us to catch up.  These skills are what I consider "core skills"
 for all bards.   Always train in these forever. 

 2x Weapon Training (of your choice) 
 1x Shield Training 
 1x Spell Research 
 1x Combat Manuevers 

 Aside from these core skills, practically any variety of other skills
 can be trained in.  The following is a brief summary of the secondary
 skills: 

Ambushing:  This comes very close to a core skill for many bards.
            I strongly suggest you start training in it as soon as
            possible.  Without it, you will have a hard time solo
            hunting critters in later years.  Single train as much as
            you can. 

Stalk & Hiding:  In combination with the ambushing skill, this is
                 almost necessary for hunting later in life.  You can
                 certainly survive without these two skills, but it
                 makes things much harder.  My suggestion:  start
                 training early and try not to skip it once you have
                 started.  Even fully single trained in this skill, I
                 still have many problems hiding from creatures like
                 Kiramon. 

Armor Use:  Due to spell hinderance, most bards just get enough for
            double leather and then stop.  Armor use takes off one
            second of RT for every 20 in the skill that you have
            (rounded up).  Double leather would then require 6 ranks,
            or 30 skill, to fully train off.  If you are willing to
            put up with the spell hinderance, by all means train
            higher.  Better armor does indeed give better protection. 

Perception:  Often overlooked, perception is one skill that you always
             wish you had more of.  If you want to open your own
             boxes, you will need a lot of perception to spot the
             traps (try to single train).  If not, then aim for about
             24 ranks (102) by level 40. 

Mana Share:  This is a must train skill.  I made the mistake of
             putting off training in it and am still trying to
             recover.  At about level 30, it becomes necessary to ask
             for spells for most critters you hunt.  Try to have a
             minimum of 10 ranks (50) by that time.  Then get to 24
             ranks (102) as fast as you can (without compromising your
             core skills). 

Climbing:  Used rather heavily in skill checks by the time you reach
           level 30, I would try to have at least 10 ranks (50) by
           then.  More is needed for areas like Pinefar. 

Swimming:  Although less frequently used than Climbing, Swimming is
           another skill that you can find yourself wishing you had
           more.  1 rank (5) is needed to get to Imaera's Shrine, 2
           ranks (10) is needed to enter Wolves Den.  Other than that,
           try to have at least 5 ranks (25) by 20th.  Pick up more
           whenever you can you never know what new areas might
           require this. 

Physical Training:  Train in this every year until about 15 (100 or so
                    hit points), then train in it whenever you can
                    until you reach your maximum hit points. 

First Aid:  With the ability to bundle herbs and the lowering of pelt
            prices, this skill has lost quite a bit in the last few
            years.  I have never trained in it but sometimes really
            wish I could skin those critters I kill.  It is up to you
            and your training regimen if you can afford this skill.
            There's every possibility that its importance could
            increase in the future.  The Council of Light requires
            you to skin in order to advance, so if you go this route
            you should pick up at least a few ranks early on. 

Disarming Traps:  A very nice skill to have if you want to open your
                  own boxes.  It helps to find traps and then to
                  disarm them.   With the current difficulty of traps
                  in the realms, you will need to train this skill
                  often to keep up.  Don't trust spell 408 (Disarm) to
                  disarm your boxes, you might end up splattered all
                  over my new vest <mumbles>. 

Lockpicking:  Not really necessary with spell 407 (Unlock) available
              to us but it can be incredibly fun.  If you stay with
              it, it provides a nice alternative to hunting in later
              years. 

Scroll Reading:  A nice skill to have, but I would consider this more
                 of a tertiary skill.  I won't train in it until I
                 have completed my mana share but others might want
                 to start earlier.  About 15 ranks (70) will allow you
                 to read almost anything.  Get more for greater 
                 success. 

Magic Item Use:  This skill isn't really needed for most bards.
                 Spell aiming is too costly for us to use wizard
                 wands and TD's vs. Sorceror's spells are too high to
                 really make use of those sorc wands.  Getting spells
                 imbedded into wands and rods are about the only use
                 for this skill. 

Brawling:  The only reason I would train in brawling is for the Voln
           Skills of Throw, Punch, and Kick…commonly referred to as
           Voln Fu.  But in order to be good at this, you practically
           have to double train in it.  This, unfortunately, is an
           impossibility for bards.  The one bard I've heard of that
           singled in it felt he had wasted training points because of
           his lack of success in Voln Fu.  Not recommended unless
           you are willing to sacrifice a lot. 

Trading:  Only train in this if you want to role-play your bard as a
          merchant.  It only saves you money, and money is irrevelant
          when compared to training points.  I would willingly give
          all my money for a few more training points a year. 

Picking Pockets:  As with trading, only train in this if you are
                  role-playing your bard with thiefly tendancies.
                  It used to be that training in this helped you to
                  spot people trying to pick your pockets, but it may
                  or may not be true now. 

 One brief skill discussion I wanted to finish with is what your main
 weapon will be.  The best two choices for a bard are generally
 one-handed edged (OHE) and Polearms.  Polearms are extremely cheap
 for us to train in (compared to most other professions).  The only
 problem is that polearms are a bit weak right now.  The one-handed
 variety can't compare to OHE weapons and the two-handed polearms are
 usually behind other two-handed weapons.  This is not to say that
 polearms will always stay as they are now.  They could very well be
 made much more effective, giving the ones who trained in them
 significant advantages.  This can't be assumed, though, and the
 chance remains that they will stay "as is".  Currently, the OHE skill
 is a much safer and more effective choice.  But if you are really
 looking for something different and want to stand out in the crowd,
 try Polearms. 

Note: Polearms don't ambush well so if you want to ambush, choose OHE. 

VI. Spell Training (to sing or to cast): 

 As an increasing amount of our spellsongs become implemented, more
 and more bards choose to go up the Bard List first.  At long last,
 this is becoming a viable alternative for bard training.  I still
 think the Minor Elemental List has more to offer at this point, but
 in the future, who is to say?  The most popular spell training
 system (and the one I use) is this: 

 Year      Spells 
 ------    -------- 
 0         401 
 1-7       1001 - 1007 
 8-36      402 - 430 
 37-49     1008 - 1020 

 After getting to this point, you can make the choice of either going
 on up to Sonic Disruption (1030) or going back to the Minor Elemental
 List to increase your bonuses on 425, True Strike, and 430, Guard
 True.  Beyond that, it is entirely up to you. 

Note: With the fantastic spell 1010 (Song of Valor) now implemented,
      you may want to  go ahead and get this before heading up the
      Minor Elemental List.  You probably won't be able to use it much
      before 20th level, but it is one of our best defensive spells. 

Note:  Unimplimented spells at the time of this writing are:  1005,
       1011, 1013, 1014, 1016, 1017, 1025, 1050, and 450.  In
       addition, 1015 is having problems with its "slowing" portion.
       1005 (now Lullabye) will likely be the next one implimented. 
  
  

VII. Loresinging: 

 Loresinging is a bard-only skill whereby we can sing to an item and
 have the item respond back to us.  Because it is ours and ours
 alone, loresinging is often thought to be the defining ability of a
 bard. 

 The range of information we can receive is fairly extensive.  The most
 notable of which is:  weight, value, number of enchantments, crit
 padding/weighting, damage padding/weighting, elemental crits, the
 spell in an item, the number of charges left in the item, and lock 
 toughness on boxes. 

 For the most part, it is an age old tradition that you learn the
 skill and artistry of loresinging from an older bard in the game.
  So if you want to learn more, then I suggest you try to find a
 mentor or attend a loresinging class in the lands.  What follows is
 just a brief description of the skill. 

 Loresinging verses contain two main things:  the item's name and the
 keyword or powerword that invokes the information.   The item's name
 must be the word used in picking up or manipulating the item.
  Sometimes these are hard to discover.  Blue lapis lazuli, for
 example, must be specified by the word "lapis".  Most are relatively
 easy, though.  A forest green broadsword is obviously referred to as
 a "broadsword". 

 There are many types of keywords for loresinging.  Some of them
 yield the same response while others invoke completely different
 information.  "Value" and "weight", for example, both will give you
 the same data while "Magic" starts you on the road towards an item's
 magic abilities. 

 How these are typically combined is in a 2 or 4 line rhyming verse
 using the command "loresing".  The item name is usually placed in
 the first line with the keyword in the second line.  You hold the
 item in your right hand and the result is something like this: 

 Broadsword that I hold in my hand; 
 Tell me your value in this land 

 (These specific lines are often referred to as the beginner's lament
 because they are only used by beginners just learning the craft.
 I seriously recommend creating your own loresinging verses.
 Actually singing the above example can cause you to be looked down
 upon by your peers.) 

 Getting back to loresinging, the lines above will give you information
 regarding value and weight.  After this, asking the item about it's
 magic might lead you to it's enchantment and on toward weightings
 and other information. 

 Random notes on loresinging: 

 Keywords are almost always hinted to in previous responses from the
 item.  Pay attention and work with the item until you have discovered
 all its secrets. 

 The lines do not have to rhyme but are usually done that way.  It
 certainly isn't necessary but is nicer most of the time. 
  
 If a two line verse isn't giving you the information you want, try a
 four line verse.  These are more powerful. 

 You will get better at getting information with loresinging as you
 gain levels. 
  

VIII.  Conclusion: 

 Bards have the ability to become very good in a wide variety of
 arenas.  For this reason, we are often refered to as
 "jack-of-all-trades".  We usually aren't the best at all things but,
 then again, we have relatively few weaknesses when compared to other
 classes.  Add the fact that we are the keepers of Lore, Music, and
 Art in the lands of Elanthia, and you can see why bards are a fun
 and challenging profession to play. 

 With the future also comes great hope for the bards.  More and more
 of our spellsongs are being implimented all the time, and when
 instruments come, we will become undisputed masters of performance
 in the lands.  No other profession will have the skill of a bard
 when playing an instrument.  In this humble bard's view, we are
 quickly becoming the envy of Elanthia.  So pick up your mandolin,
 whistle a few bars, and come sing with us. 


Jaslin Machea, 
Elven Bard 
  

*  Feel free to send me email at WOLShuyun@aol.com if you have any
   questions. 


