Posted on June 8, 1998  - New Cleric Circle Revisions

The spells and their descriptions have been listed for your information.  
All spells have been listed for completeness and do not imply that all 
have been modified.  

Group effect spells require the cleric to be present or the effects will 
dissipate.  Whether or not the cleric is required to be the party leader 
is still being determined.

All appropriate spells have a maximum cap of 120 minutes.  I may adjust 
the cap at my discretion depending on system resource limitations.

All appropriate spells are refreshable but do not accumulate.

Spell availability: it'll be ready, when it's ready.

  GM Ophion, cleric guru 



       spell: 0301
        name: prayer of holding
    mnemonic: holding

 description: The Prayer of Holding spell allows a cleric to interfere with
              the evil controlling principle of an undead creature for a
              time. This can render them in a "sleep like" state (although
              they do not fall down) for the period of its duration.

              The duration of the hold is based on the amount of energy a 
              cleric can gather and the power of the creature target.

              Mana costs is proportionate to half the target level
              (max 20).



       spell: 0302
        name: repel undead
    mnemonic: replund

 description: The Repel Undead spell is the mainstay of the cleric's
              weapons against the undead. This spell allows the cleric
              to dispatch an undead being.

              A spirit warding is required. If successful, the creature
              attempts to run away. If this is not possible the creature
              may shake the spell or may simply disintegrate. If the
              undead fails the spirit warding badly enough, it may
              disintegrate anyway.

              Mana costs is proportionate to half the target level
              (minimum 2/maximum 25).


       spell: 0303
        name: prayer of warding
    mnemonic: warding

 description: This spell increases the moral fortitude of the target,
              allowing for greater resistance to attacks of various forms.

              The defensive benefit is +5DS plus +1DS per cleric spells
              known beyond 303 (Max +20DS).  Mana costs are proportionate
              to benefits (3 base mana +1/bonus).



       spell: 0304
        name: holy blade
    mnemonic: holyblade

 description: Undead creatures are immune to many forms of physical attack.
              Normal weapons will not harm an undead creature other than
              to make ugly, but harmless, gashes.  A cleric can use the 
              use the Holy Blade spell to bless the weapon and imbue it
              with the ability to harm the undead.

              This spell works on most weapons, however imperfections can
              cause a blade to be rendered unstable by this blessing.  A
              cursed weapon cannot be blessed and often the resulting clash
              of diametrically opposed energies may prove catastrophic.  A
              learned cleric's blessing may offer holy water crit ability.
              Also, certain magical weapons may be blessed if the casting
              cleric has great knowledge of their base spell list.


       spell: 0305
        name: preservation
    mnemonic: preserve

 description: This spell will prevent the soul of a fallen comrade from
              departing for the duration of the spell. This is useful when
              preparing for a resurrection or finding a higher level cleric
              capable of helping.


       spell: 0306
        name: holy bolt
    mnemonic: holybolt

 description: In the service of their gods, a cleric is able to conjure
              a stream of purified holy water and direct it against a
              a target.  Living or dead, the target amount of damage is
              dependant upon the clerics aimed spell ability vs the
              target's defenses.  However, undeads are known to have an
              extra susceptibility to the holy water's effects.


       spell: 0307
        name: benediction
    mnemonic: benedict

 description: The favors of the gods are often sought and are often
              granted thru their faithful servants.  Benediction permits
              the cleric to garner his/her god's favor and impart such
              benefits to those around them.  Wherewith goes the cleric,
              so doth the favors of the gods.

              The cleric may impart +5AS and +5DS to all those joined.  The
              learned cleric may succour more favors to gain +1AS and +1DS 
              per known cleric spells beyond 307 (Max +15AS/DS) at a
              proportionate increase in mana costs (7 base mana +1/bonus).

       spell: 0308
        name: well of life
    mnemonic: welloflife

 description: Sacrifice is a well known trait of clerics.  By this spell,
              the cleric can channel his/her spiritual force to replenish
              another character.  The amount of transfer is based on the
              caster's mana transfer skill and other subtle factors.  The
              spell will not permit the caster transfer such that he/she 
              dies; meaning that the cleric will always have at least 1 
              spirit point left.  This is a very taxing and arduous 
              endeavour for the cleric and some recuperation will be
              required after a successful transfer.


       spell: 0309
        name: neutralize curse
    mnemonic: neutcurse
 description: By gathering the favor of the gods, a cleric may nullify a
              curse and place it in abeyance for a short period of time
              (10sec/level).  Once the spell's duration wanes, the curse
              will return.


       spell: 0310
        name: warding sphere
    mnemonic: wardsphere

 description: Mastery of this spell enables the learned cleric to not only 
              extend the benefits of the warding spell to those nearby but
              also increase its effectiveness.
 
              The spell offers +10DS and +1DS per cleric spell known beyond
              310 (Max +40DS).  Mana costs are proportionate to benefits
              (10 base mana +1/bonus).


       spell: 0311
        name: blinding
    mnemonic: blinding
 
 description: This spell causes the image of the cleric's deity to be
              superimposed over him/herself. This vision will blind the
              target causing it to be stunned for the duration of the
              effect.


       spell: 0312
        name: raisedead
    mnemonic: raisedead

 description: Mastery of this spell allows a cleric to actually appeal to
              his/or her deity to raise a fallen comrade from the dead.
              This spell is very taxing on the caster and success is not
              assured. The target must have a soul (undeparted) for this
              spell to work and the body must be able to sustain life which
              means the services of an empath may be needed.

              If successfully raised, the formerly dead character will have
              but 1 spirit point and be in whatever condition he/she was in
              prior to being raised otherwise. The character will _not_
              suffer any stat loss due to this death, so resurrection by a
              cleric is far superior to that of one of the gods.

              The caster will lose 75% of the target's _maximum_ spirit
              points. This is not to be confused with actual spirit points;
              this means that if the cleric has less than 75% of the dead
              character's spirit points, the resurrection attempt will kill
              him/her. For example, if the dead character has 10 spirit
              points, a cleric would need 8 actual spirit points to
              complete the resurrection (and survive).

              Note: The dead player's soul must exist for this spell to be
              effective

              Expect significant round times for this activity.


       spell: 0313
        name: prayer
    mnemonic: prayer

 description: By petitioning the gods through prayer and reverent
              communion, the cleric gains a modicum of protection to ward
              off spells and a bit of 'luck' to deal with maneuver attacks.
              Duration is 30sec/level.


       spell: 0314
        name: interdiction
    mnemonic: interdict

 description: Clerics are the masters of channeling mana.  By the grace
              of their gods, the cleric may sanction the target's ability
              to harness mana thereby depriving them of their magic for
              the duration of the spell.  The duration is 5sec per number
              of cleric spells known.
 
              The target will lose mana in proportion to the cleric's 
              effectiveness (base spell knowledge) until the target runs
              out of mana.  And will remain thus for the duration of the
              spell.


       spell: 0315
        name: remove curse
    mnemonic: removecrs

 description: This spell will completely dispel a curse from an item. This
              spell has limited abilities; sometimes objects contain curses
              so set into the fabric of the object that it cannot be
              removed. Sometimes removal of a curse will also destroy the
              other powers of the object but occasionally these two
              elements are independent and this may leave behind a useful
              item. There is always a chance this spell will fail in
              unpredictable ways.


       spell: 0316
        name: atonement
    mnemonic: atonement

 description: By their will and dogma, the cleric can invoke this
              spell to consign their target with guilt and remorse as
              to overwhelm their sensibilities.  Thus encumbered, the
              target will hesitate in their actions from doubt, or retard
              their attacks from endless deliberations.


       spell: 0317
        name: zealot
    mnemonic: zealot

 description: To those who follow the true path.. there can be only
              one Way.  Any other choice is heresy.  Thus are borne
              the zealots whose minds and actions are solely dedicated to
              enforce 'righteousness' of their enlightenment upon the
              world.  For their singlemindedness, these clerics are
              imbued with great strength and conviction.  Life is a mere
              trinket to idly toss aside in the service of their divine
              masters.


       spell: 0318
        name: life restoration
    mnemonic: lifrestore

 description: This is a higher version of 312, but draws more favor of
              the deity to soften the impact on the caster and the one
              being raised. The caster loses 50% of their maximum spirit
              points and the target is restored to 10% of their maximum
              spirit points and health points.


       spell: 0319
        name: divine wrath
    mnemonic: divinewrth

 description: Truly is the faithful servant rewarded by their diety's
              attention. By invoking their god's name, the cleric may
              summon the fury of their divine master to smite down the
              undeads before them.


       spell: 0320
        name: exorcism
    mnemonic: exorcism

 description: TBA


       spell: 0325
        name: sanctify
    mnemonic: sanctify

 description: TBA


       spell: 0330
        name: prayer of communion
    mnemonic: commune
 
 description: Upon reaching this level in the cleric spell circle, the
              cleric is able to cast a commune spell in order to contact
              his/her deity. Casting this spell requests the presence of
              the deity who may or may not respond. If the deity does not
              respond, most of the mana points consumed by this spell are
              returned to the caster within a few minutes.

              If the deity does respond, you will know it! The presence of
              a deity is not to be taken lightly so use all due respect
              or risk losing the favor of the gods of Elanthia. The exact
              deity which responds is never quite assured regardless of
              which deity the cleric worships and serves.

              When a deity does respond, your character may ask of
              him/her a few questions. The number of questions you may
              ask and the complexity are limited. A deity is known to
              respond in an ethereal manner many times and the best
              response you can usually expect is a prepositional phrase.
              You can be assured, however, the answer will be the truth
              if there is one.
 
              As an example of how to be cautious with your questions:

                 A cleric, hopelessly lost in a maze asks, "How do I
                 get out of this maze, lord?"

                 The deity responds, "By following the correct
                 path."

              You are cautioned to not attempt to pin down or outwit a
              deity who is being ambiguous since there is usually a purpose
              in it. However you can expect that at times a deity will give
              very valuable information especially when you are serving
              him/her in your quest.


       spell: 0350
        name: ressurection
    mnemonic: ressurect

 description: The highest level spell for a cleric is the ultimate
              resurrection spell. It will raise a character from the dead
              with a loss of only 25% of the target's spirit points by the
              casting cleric. The deity supplies most of the work. In fact
              the target will be restored to 50% of their spirit and
              health points as well.

              This spell is also known to do some amount of physical
              healing (in some cases complete healing), making it one of
              the most powerful effects a cleric can muster.



